# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Chris      | Wysopal   | Veracode          | Member                  |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Voting Member           |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Pavel      | Mikula    | Sonar             | Member                  |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/70111/agenda_20220630.html

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-06-16_Meeting #60](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=70061&wg_abbrev=sarif)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Michael to initiate contact with OpenSSF
  * ONGOING - in progress, but delayed because of people on vacation
* ACTION on Chris M. to solicit a working example from WhiteSource of their scenario
  * ONGOING - still ongoing but the demo was already shared (tool now called Mend)
 
## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

* Chris Wysopal will obtain voting rights at the end of this meeting.
* Pavel Mikula will obtain voting rights at the end of this meeting.

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* Aditya Sharad will lose voting rights if not joining before the end of the meeting
* Aharon Abadi will lose voting rights if not joining before the end of the meeting

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ```
    July 14
    July 28
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security, Microsoft

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Scurity Tools
  * Liaison Group has been selected, no status report yet because setup is in progress.
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* Everything that is needed is in place. 
* Review ongoing with Michael on the json schemata and David is looking is looking into the doc files. 
* Expected completion date: next TC meeting.
* Chris: close to finalizing the schema

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Mary: 
  * Ongoing work working with linter teams on GitHub. 
  * Bugfixing and maintenance ongoing.

## 4.3 Discussion of updates to SARIF web site [https://www.sarif.info](https://www.sarif.info)

* Chris: list of polish items in there. 
* Thanassis provided graphics. 
* Aharon is about to provide Mend’s graphic. 
* More teams to be added soon. 
* Pavel would like to be added
* Chris is assisting.

## 4.4 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* Thanassis: Discussion about meeting with mend and seeing auto-fixing capabilities and discussion on integration with VS code.
* Chris: 
  * Working with Aharon to get more results for Altoroj, Webgoat, shepherd (example projects) are to get more information on how the integration could work. 
  * Further integration is being thought about with a ForAllSecure installation locally to try out replay integration. 
  * Right-click re-run is an ability that Microsoft is looking into. 
  * Next goal demo is to have these channels to converge in one “shiny interesting scenario”.

## 4.5 Status of [Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:SARIF)

* David: 
  * Submitted wikipedia page for review. 
  * May take 4 months or more. 
  * David will shepherd it through the process. 
  * Will remove as a future agenda item and report back when ready.

## 4.6 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

* No updates on results management.

# 5. Other Business

* Chris: 
  * Update on dynamic analysis: can we accelerate work on coming up with new designs for dynamic analysis. 
  * New committee member that should join in July will help (Yoshi). 
  * First design work to come up with auto-fixing and then replaying.

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)

None

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)

* Ongoing actions exist
* No new action

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  Jul  14, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
