# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company          | Role(s)                 |
| :--------- | :-------- | :--------------- | :---------------------- |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Github          |  Guest                   |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual       | Chair                   |
| Eddy       | Nakamura  | Microsoft        | Voting member           |
| Katrina    | O'Neil    | Micro Focus      | Voting member           |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft        | Voting member           |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc. | Voting member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual       | Secretary, taking notes |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/69234/agenda_20211028.html

  Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2021-10-14 Meeting #46](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=69230&wg_abbrev=sarif)

  Minutes were approved

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION Michael: Reach out to ParaSoft
  - ONGOING
* ACTION Paul: Provide some suggestions on metrics
  - ONGOING
 
## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

All voting members present.

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

* Approved Teleconferences (Tuesdays at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  November 11
  December 2
  ```
  Notes
  1. For November only, Tuesdays are proposed to avoid conflicting with other meetings and with the US Thanksgiving holiday.
  2. For the proposed November dates, the US and EU will both be off daylight savings time, thus the difference in UTC time.

  Discussion if November 11 and December 2 match better (keeping the Thursdays and avoid Thanksgiving)

  * Next meetings agreed:
  ```
  November 11
  December 2
  ```

* Possible face-to-face meeting in 2022Q1

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee

* Michael: New members in sight
* Michael: Reached out towards StackHawk, Mayhem, and NTT in the dynamic analyisa area
* Katrina: Contacted ex-colleague (now at salesforce) in dynamic analysis field and others

## 3.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata

* Michael: DONE and would like to send the change bar documents out per a branch so interested reviewers can review there
* David: Suggests to directly create a branch and send an email with the URL
* Michael: Will store in microsoft OneDrive and manage access - so as to make comments visible (as the document is a Microsoft Word document no markdown)
* David: When this review is approved by the reviewers we should hold a full majority vote and hand over publication to OASIS TC administration.

## 3.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Eddy: Added three more tools to the list
* Eddy: Additional changes and [PR#2](https://github.com/dmk42/sarif-spec/pull/2)
* Michael: How about placing names in the chat.
* Michael/Eddy: The three new SARIF export tools are 
  - Threat Model Linter
  - TM7 (log file for the Microsoft Threat Modeling)
  - [Microsoft Attack Surface Analyzer](https://github.com/microsoft/AttackSurfaceAnalyzer)
  - Visual Studio support for suppressions management, will port this feature to VS Code as well.
  - Updated the VS Studio extension to 64-bit
* Eddy:
  - updated the [PR#2](https://github.com/dmk42/sarif-spec/pull/2) to add more tools to the wiki
  - finished the changeto enable SARIF for AttackSurfaceAnalyzer
  - working with BPA ([Template Analyzer](https://github.com/Azure/template-analyzer)) and TM7 (log file for the Microsoft Threat Modeling)
* David: Merged the [PR#2](https://github.com/dmk42/sarif-spec/pull/2)

## 3.4 Discuss metrics

* All discuss metrics representations
* Michael suggests for next meeting to 
  - keep agenda items 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3 and 
  - change the item 3.4 to "Discuss metrics specifically CodeQL, Metrics Investments, and General design approach"

## 3.5 Discuss dynamic analysis and how to address it

* David: Reminds everyone what was last time decided to proceed in that order:
  - publication of Errata for 2.1 
  - rechartering of TC to widen scope
  - there will be a specifi list needed for the new charter
* Michael: Let us start a collection of domains
* David: Domain fuzzing
* Michael: Domain test execution and colocate with code coverage
* Paul: Domain crash dump analysis? Or too close to fuzzing?
* Michael: Supports adding the crash dump analysis explicit
* Katrina: Domain runtime analysis?
* Stefan: Domain memory analysis (forensics of file less malware more observing)?
* Stefan: Out of scope dynamic effects on CPUs (think rowhammer)
* Michael: Out of scope Penetration Testing
* Michael: Out of scope Jupyter Notebooks
* Michael: Domain web scanning, client and server scanning (accessibility)
* Michael: Domain Compile time (address sanitizer) and run time insertion points (managed debug)
* Michael: Out of scope license defect in repository or dependency on component that has a CVE
* Paul: These are mostly static analysis outcomes; question: If a dynamic feature has a correspondence to a static feature we do not include, should we include the dynamic feature?
* Michael: Verify that we include no general "suurounding" system analysis
* Michael: Code Insights - a tool projects crash info on a source code view
* Michael: Google and uber have defined the Code Insight Protocol
* Michael: Where in the graph of all possible analysis types and tools we do see SARIF?
* Michael: Maybe include Tracing?

# 4. Other Business

* Michael: MicroFocus reached out and asked about a SARIF Java SDK - anyone else besides MicroFocus and Microsoft interested?
* Michael: Code Insights Protocol / SASP - Michael will reach out to Uber and Google

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION: None noted

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION Michael: To send an email after the meeting to David suggesting the 3.4 agenda item for next meeting
* ACTION Stefan: Create PR for minutes so that Michalel can insert the list he accumulated from the discussion
* ACTION Michael: Insert his collected list of possible in scope and out of scope domains for inclusion in the new charter after the meeting by insertion into the minutes
* ACTION Michael: Reach out to contacts at Google and Uber on the Code Insights Protocol topic 

# 6. Next Meeting

November 11, 2021 / 08:00-09:30 PT / 16:00-17:30 UTC

# 7. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
