# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company          | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:-----------------|:------------------------|
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft        | Member                  |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual       | Chair                   |
| Eddy       | Nakamura  | Microsoft        | Voting member           |
| James      | Spoor     | Snyk Ltd         | Member                  |
| Katrina    | O'Neil    | Micro Focus      | Voting member           |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft        | Voting member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft        | Voting Member           |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc. | Voting member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual       | Secretary, taking notes |


## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/69555/agenda_20220127.html

  Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-01-13 Meeting #48](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=69554&wg_abbrev=sarif)

  Minutes were approved 

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION David: Find out how to upload content to wikipedia (#507)
  * ONGOING
* ACTION Michael: Reach out to contacts at Google and Uber on the Code Insights Protocol topic
  * COMPLETE - reply signalled interest on conducting another summit on the CIP in Summer
* ACTION Michael: Reach out to ParaSoft
  * COMPLETE - meeting booked for next week
* ACTION Michael: Will author and check in the roadmap / list of in- and out-of-scope features
  * COMPLETE - plan to discuss and check into repo after this meeting

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* James Spoor will gain voting rights at the end of this meeting.

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    February 10
    February 24
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee

* None

## 3.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* ONGOING

## 3.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Eddy: Working on issues, enhancing tools in GitHub infrastructure, and for the VSCode extension working on GitHub integration
* Michael: VSCode enhancements implement the full round trip experience between result stores and the code authoring process
* Eddy: [PDK](https://github.com/puppetlabs/pdk), [ESLint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint), and Rust [Clippy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy) are being worked on to provide / improve SARIF capability
* Eddy: When these support tasks are done (PDK and Clippy) GitHub actions will be set up

## 3.4 Any continued report/discussion on metrics

* Michael: Chris and Courtney joined the design committee internal to Microsoft

## 3.5 Review proposal for what's in- and out-of-scope - general discussion

* Michael: Walks the members through the roadmap draft for target version 2.2:
  * Close on SARIF 2.1 errata.
  * Continue to identify/tag non-breaking spot-fixes to format as GitHub issues (e.g., property adds to existing types).
  * Generate a design proposal (non-breaking) for metrics, finalize what's in or out.
    - Quality metrics (in)
    - Code coverage (currently out)
    - Profiling data (currently out)
  * Complete investigation of SARIF 2.1 reuse (as-is) for major topics currently blessed for SARIF v.Next:
    - FUZZING: Investigate OneFuzz use of SARIF 2.1 for crash reporting/fuzzing.
    - WEB SCAN: Investigate Snyk use of SARIF 2.1 for DAST web analysis.
  * Review learnings from evaluations above and codify design decisions based on them.
  * Codify decisions on other large DAST topics (in or out)
    - Accessibility (currently in)
    - Network/end-point scanning (undecided)
    - Component governance (currently out)
    - Composition analysis (currently out)
  * ONGOING: Identify and act on other topics of interest to commmittee, e.g.:
    - Fixes
    - Advanced fingerprinting (extremely change-resilient fingerprints)
    - SARIF and the executive order
    - Aggregated SARIF results store
  * Finalize an explicit statement on what is excluded from the vNext format (e.g., taxonomies).
  * Close on refactoring guiding principles/decisions.
  * Derive versioning roadmap based on finished discussions.
  * Formalize roles/accountabilities. 
  * Execute on schema design, prototyping/testing, spec authoring. 
    - We will have dedicated text authoring and use testing support.
    - Other roles include: design technical lead, domain experts who contribute initial context, sample historical data/reports, deep review of design/approach.
  * Release. Profit.

* Michael: Invites all experts on the call to actively participate in driving the topics they relate to
  * especially providing draft concepts, code samples, and prototypes to converge fast on working and relevant solutions
* All: Discuss the roadmap topics and Michael edits the outline of the roadmap live during the meeting
* Michael: Informs about [two engineering notes available at github](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/tree/master/Documents/SupplementalContent)
  * [EN05 Populating SARIF for Effective Result Matching.docx](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/master/Documents/SupplementalContent/EN05%20Populating%20SARIF%20for%20Effective%20Result%20Matching.docx)
  * [EN06 SARIF Result Matching.docx](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/master/Documents/SupplementalContent/EN06%20SARIF%20Result%20Matching.docx)
  * [Locality-sensitive hashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locality-sensitive_hashing) (LSH)
* Stefan: Usefulness of region hashing will depend on language peculiarities:
  * Python and Scala 3 use space indent for block structure / scope
    * moving a region will require either "interesting" canonicalization or just break
  * Even in delimiter based block / scopes there are isomorphic transforms that will break such hashes
* Paul: Reports on his experiences with hashing of local regions 
  * the less local the hashing the more user needs additional explanation 
* James: Is using LSH
* Michael: Shares a decade old paper: 
  * ["Code Clone Detection Experience at Microsoft", Yingnong Dang et al.](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/Code_clone_detection_experience_at_Microsoft.pdf)

## 3.6 Status of Wikipedia page

* ONGOING

## 3.7 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

* Michael: Meeting will be next week.
* Michael: Ongoing discussion to enhance the debug experience in VSCode for end to end scenarios.

# 4. Other Business

* None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)

* None

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)

* ACTION: Michael to set up meeting information so interested parties can participate on CIP meeting next week

# 6. Next Meeting
  ```
  February 10, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PT / 16:00-17:30 UTC
  ```

# 7. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
