# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company          | Role(s)                 |
| :--------- | :-------- | :--------------- | :---------------------- |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft        | Member                  |
| Courtney   | Lawton    | Microsoft        | Public Participant      |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual       | Chair                   |
| Eddy       | Nakamura  | Microsoft        | Voting member           |
| James      | Spoor     | Snyk Ltd         | Member                  |
| Katrina    | O'Neil    | Micro Focus      | Voting member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft        | Member                  |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc. | Voting member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual       | Secretary, taking notes |


## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/69500/agenda_20220113.html

  Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2021-12-09 Meeting #48](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=69499&wg_abbrev=sarif)

  Minutes were approved

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION David: Find out how to upload content to wikipedia (#507)
  - ONGOING
* ACTION Michael: Reach out to contacts at Google and Uber on the Code Insights Protocol topic
  - ONGOING
* ACTION Michael: Reach out to ParaSoft
  - ONGOING
* ACTION Michael: Will author and check in the roadmap / list of in- and out-of-scope features
  - ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

* James Spoor first time participation amd if he attends the next meeting will gain voting rights at the end of that meeting.

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Aditya Sharad and Nathan Baird both will gain voting rights at the end of next meeting.

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* None

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

* None

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* None

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

* Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  January 27
  ```
* Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  February 10
  February 24
  ```
* Possible face-to-face meeting in 2022Q1

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee

* David: One new member participating in the meeting today: James Spoor is welcomed
* James: shortly introduced himself
* Michael: Acquired a thechnical writer to assist in the production of the errata.

## 3.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata

* David: submitted the request to OASIS for the 15-day public review of the Errata on 2021-12-09.
* Michael: There will be support to finalize the errata (technical writer)
* David: Checklist for finalizing errata is in github issue [Requirements to finalize the errata #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

## 3.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Eddy:
  - Github capabilities for SARIF extensions for VS and VSCode
  - Improve Codeflows for tool (CodeQL)
  - New ITM version
* Michael: Highlighted the impact of some of these improvements 

## 3.4 Any continued report/discussion on metrics

* ONGOING otherwise no updates from the committee

## 3.5 Review proposal for what's in- and out-of-scope - general discussion

* ONGOING and tracked by Michael's action on the metrics / roadmap

## 3.6 Status of Wikipedia page

* ONGOING and David plans to provide until one of the two next meetings

## 3.7 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

* Michael: Shortly mentions a risk from the differences in position sync of results and code locations in editors between VS (not available identically in VSCode)
* Michael: New format ideas popped up to enable copy and paste transfer from GitHub CodeQL results into editor extensions
* Michael: Ongoing internal discussion at Microsoft on fuzzing result transfer into extensions
* Michael: Ongoing activities around the Code Insights Protocol (CIP)
* Aditya: Offers support for the protocol to avoid duplication of efforts
* All discuss options for a result store
* Nathan: How does the envisaged result store handle static and dynamic analysis results
* All discuss options for including dynamic results in a result store and to access per CIP 
* Nathan: Shortly lists the typical activities and result types that his team performs and uses
* David: Suggests to maybe consider eclipse to provide diversity of extensions
* Paul: Suggests to be careful to decide on what "flavor" to target (as many vendors provide customized versions)
* Stefan: Proposes to approach JetBrains - as they e.g. offer [Qodana - a linter with SARIF output](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/qodana/qodana-sarif-output.html) 
* James: Maybe can present some of the Snyk tools in one of the next meetings
* James: Consuming SARIF files can be resoruce intensive in the current version due to the format chosen - are there plans to change that or how do other tools handle that?
* Michael: Mentions deferred reads and writes as well as compression (all code level solutions) exemplifying existing strategies used in the field to mitigate resource problems
* Michael: Sketches some of the plans and the ideas not continued in the course of the existing spec version
* Stefan: Is in favor of streamability but is afraid the resistance why we did design SARIF as a monolithic JSON object in the first place will be hard to overcome with chunked un-wrapped designs
* All continue discussion

# 4. Other Business

* None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION: Meetings agreed for February 10 and 24

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION David: Find out how to upload content to wikipedia (#507)
* ACTION Michael: Reach out to contacts at Google and Uber on the Code Insights Protocol topic
* ACTION Michael: Reach out to ParaSoft
* ACTION Michael: Will author and check in the roadmap / list of in- and out-of-scope features

# 6. Next Meeting

January 27, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PT / 16:00-17:30 UTC

# 7. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
