# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company          | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:-----------------|:------------------------|
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft        | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual       | Chair                   |
| Katrina    | O'Neil    | Micro Focus      | Voting member           |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft        | Voting member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft        | Voting Member           |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc | Member                  |


## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/69758/agenda_20220324.html
  Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-03-10_Meeting #54](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=69757&wg_abbrev=sarif)

  Minutes were approved 

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION David: Find out how to upload content to wikipedia (#507)
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael: Next time a demo for crash data proof-of-concept will be available
  + ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael: To send the provided information to David as input for meetings with candidates interested in joining the TC
  * DONE - Michael sent David a link to the roadmap

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* Eddy Nakamura will lose voting rights at the end of the meeting.

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PDT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ***On the following date, North America and Europewill be on Daylight Savings Time.***
    ```
    April 7
    April 21
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee

* David spoke with JFrog, looks like they may join. Two different good discussions, Carol Geyer assisted.

## 3.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* Editing is ongoing.

## 3.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Heads down on the Visual Studio extension interoperability with GitHub Advanced security, focused on CodeQL. 
* Chris: solicit OSS linters burndown progress. IDE problems identified, turnaround time and code drift during code authoring. Mike to contact Thanassis offline to provide information on the VS Code extension. 
* Thanassis suggests that we use the OASIS repo as a starting point for information. Where are the assets? The blessed libraries? Etc. Links to the Wiki, etc. 
* Nathan: Nathan's project has worked on the code drift issue MF to follow up offline. 
  * Considering putting SARIF on XML configuration files as well, incidentally. 
  * For results store, let's get concrete. 
    * 1) Let's create issues. 
    * 2) Create a point area for this planning. 
    * 3) the REST API is most important and s/be prioritized in design, 
    * 4) the tabular form is important but less important. Nathan should contribute a use case as a start, MF and team to contribute others. 
* Known SARIF rendering clients are VS, VS Code, OSS web control, GitHub Advanced Security. 
* We appear to be moving into a working group model. Some committees form study groups, but we could simply orient our work around public activities. Thanassis expressed an interest in this. 

## 3.4 Any continued report/discussion on metrics

* Metrics work is simply ongoing.

## 3.5 Review crash data proof-of-concept

* Demo in flight for dev canvas, pushed to next week. 

## 3.6 Status of Wikipedia page

* Created draft page in wikipedia, need to add deletes and we will be done.

## 3.7 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

None

# 4. Other Business

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)

None

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)

* ACTION on Chris: Create a simple markdown readme in the repo and create a plan for updating the website. 
* ACTION on All: Use cases for retrieving SARIF via REST API. 
* ACTION on Michael: Connect Thanassis with the VS Code effort. 


# 6. Next Meeting
  ```
  April  7, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 7. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
