# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Aharon     | Abadi     | WhiteSource       | Member                  |
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Jeff       | King      |                   | Guest                   |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Member                  |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc.  | Voting member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/69838/agenda_20220421.html

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-04-07_Meeting #55](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=69837&wg_abbrev=sarif)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Chris to update readme/website:
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Paul to provide Grammatech search domains:
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael to reach out to Jeff Williams on providing positive evidence:
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael to solicit/identify concrete next steps on schema/data:
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael to reach out to Aharon, who has background in fixing, previews, pull requests:
  * ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Jeff Williams and Aharon Abadi both gaining voting rights at the end of this meeting.

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PDT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ```
    May  5
    May 26
    ```

- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee

* OASIS plans to set up a time so prospective members can meet with David
* OASIS is happy because SARIF TC attracted so many new members this year already.
* Day before Yesterday JFrog joined OASIS with the intent to join SARIF TC
  - hopefully next SARIF meeting will have first participants from JFrog.

## 3.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* David reports on status of production and kindly requests review from members
  - There is a mapping from sections to issues in [David's latest comment on the tracking issue 509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509#issuecomment-1104673114)

## 3.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Chris reports there is progress further supporting the eco system

## 3.4 Any continued report/discussion on metrics

* Nothing new on metrics

## 3.5 Review crash data proof-of-concept

* Chris provides several demos online to the participants - all of them are open source 
  - Microsoft Visual Studio integration from GitHub Advanced Security [https://github.com/microsoft/sarif-visualstudio-extension](https://github.com/microsoft/sarif-visualstudio-extension)
  - VSCode extension including analysis of threads [https://github.com/microsoft/sarif-vscode-extension](https://github.com/microsoft/sarif-vscode-extension) and this "extension of the extension" includes opups with markup (provided by the XAML tools)
* Chris demonstrates how "drift of source locations" during edit sessions where the developer moves sources parts relevant to "findings" in the SARIF files and regardless the "code finder" still allows to link the new location to the "old" findings
  - VSCode API driven feature that profits from properties in the SARIF file
* Michael reminds on the past discussions within this TC on CodeQL vs. IDE APIs to achieve consistent behavior
* All discuss APIs, injection of XAML markup per SARIF, user experience when providing pop-ups on hover, and authentication support for plugins/extensions per tool (Visual Studio vs. VSCode)
* Jeff Williams suggests to put the complete context inside SARIF (not only HTTP but also databases some code is connecting to)
* Aharon suggests to extend SARIF with the context (esp. the control flow graph) and not only rely on the vendor to priotize what goes into from context
* Nathan suggests ranking to sort out context display ordering
* All discuss how SARIF may provide useful metadata and how to find a domain agnostic limit
* All thank Chris for the interesting demo

## 3.6 Status of Wikipedia page

* David: Still ongoing

## 3.7 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

* Nothing specific today

# 4. Other Business

* Opportunity to enter liaison with the Open Source Security Foundation [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org) because OpenSSF seems to mention SARIF a lot (as noted by Chet Ensign from OASIS)
  - Could be individual or companies being members of both sides
  - There would be a permanent agenda item on the liaison
  - If an individual does the liaison we could have that person reporting to both sides
  - If a company would offer the liaison different people might report to the respective parties
* All discuss the possibilities and implications of entering a liaison with OpenSSF
* Michael would also be interested in liaising with NIST, DHS, etc.
  - maybe GitHub would be the natural candidate as liaison

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)

None.

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)

* ACTION on Michael to manage the resulting changes from the errata draft to carry over to schema
* ACTION on Chris to follow-up on the discussion on injection and parser addition caused complexity leading to possible security risks

# 6. Next Meeting

  ```
  May   5, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 7. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
