# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Aharon     | Abadi     | WhiteSource       | Voting Member           |
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Voting Member           |
| Jonathan   | Gilday    | Contrast Security | Guest                   |
| Mary       | Mart      | Microsoft         | Guest                   |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/69892/agenda_20220421.html

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-04-21_Meeting #57](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=69891&wg_abbrev=sarif)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Chris to update readme/website:
  * COMPLETE
* ACTION on Paul to provide Grammatech search domains:
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael to reach out to Jeff Williams on providing positive evidence:
  * ONGOING (meeting in planning, then a mail will go to the list with results)
* ACTION on Michael to solicit/identify concrete next steps on schema/data:
  * ONGOING (errata done, schema changes pending)
* ACTION on Michael to reach out to Aharon, who has background in fixing, previews, pull requests:
  * ONGOING (May 10 there will be a meeting with discussion, mail will be sent to the list; topics complex result list and auto fixes)
* ACTION on Michael to manage the resulting changes from the errata draft to carry over to schema
  * ONGOING (comment on tracking issue)
* ACTION on Chris to follow-up on the discussion on injection and parser addition caused complexity leading to possible security risks
  * COMPLETE (follow up happened, XAML format topics will eventually be followed up within the implementation teams)
    * Michael: Some links on the topic:
      * [XAML security considerations - 2020-SEP-17](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/desktop/xaml-services/security-considerations)
      * [Code-Behind and XAML in WPF - 2022-MAR-17](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/desktop/wpf/advanced/code-behind-and-xaml-in-wpf?view=netframeworkdesktop-4.8)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Stefan will gain voting rights at the end of this meeting.
### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PDT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ```
    May 26
    ```

- Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ```
    June 16
    June 30
    ```

- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee

* David: Recruitement going well; another meeting with new prospective members upcoming
* David: There will be an official OASIS news release announcing some of our new members

## 3.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* All discuss the status of review and clarify the nature of the received feedback
* David: Plans are to send out next week and conduct a one week email ballot to then trigger the public review process
* David: In case the edits take longer we will vote on the next meeting

## 3.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Chris: 
  * New Visual Studio extension version published
  * New linters added and additional linters considered
* Michael: [Quality domain agnostic regular expression pattern matcher that persists results to SARIF](https://github.com/microsoft/sarif-pattern-matcher)

## 3.4 Any continued report/discussion on metrics

* Awaiting discussion between Michael and Paul

## 3.5 Discussion of updates to SARIF web site [https://sarifweb.azurewebsites.net/](https://sarifweb.azurewebsites.net/)

* Chris: Walks all through the sections of the SARIF web site / landing page at [https://sarifweb.azurewebsites.net/](https://sarifweb.azurewebsites.net/)
* All discuss the scope of the website
* Michael: Clarifies that Microsoft maintains the site, but the intent is to offer any available tool / resource
* Chris: There are already non-microsoft resources present on the site
* Michael: Suggests revisiting the approach / scope of the site offering - site was finished four years ago and new contributors to the TC might provide fresh ideas.
* Chris: Encourages everyone to provide feedback
* Michael: Provides https://reproducible-builds.org as food for thought
* Jeff: Suggests there should be ideally a single info source for all things SARIF
* Stefan: Mentions https://csaf.io as another example from the OASIS CSAF TC
* Jonathan: Contarst Security OSS tools could be integrated like [POJOs generated from the Static Analysis Results Interchange Format (SARIF) JSON schema.](https://github.com/Contrast-Security-OSS/java-sarif)

## 3.6 Review outcomes of MSFT/ForAllSecure dynamic analysis discussion

* Michael: 
  * Report from the meeting / discussions
  * Walks all through his notes
    * Key principles for dynamic analysis
    * Problems for supporting data from dynamic results
* Jeff:
  * Static vs. dynamic analysis results are just different perspectives focusing on the same finding (blending linear and hierarchical approaches)
  * There should be a way (ideally) to bring both perspectives together in SARIF - maybe the tools could bring in ideas
  * Great use case could be test / re-test - keeping maximal context (state) to be able to immediately share that information within the test case executing
    * Works best with end-to-end tests - but in general no need to exploit vulnerabilities to bring value to the developer
* Thanassis: 
  * embraces the sketched approaches to exploration of extending SARIF to dynamic analysis
  * additional complexity comes from combining test results from different scopes but if successful that may boost developers fixing velocity and increase coverage
  * what about reproducibility?
* David:
  * (w.r.t.) naming to widen the scope as embraced by the members of the TC is possible no recharter is needed (only clarification)
  * Perspective is static transforming into software term
  * Acronym SARIF can stay
* Michael: Provides link to debug assistance within the .Net context as example: [Diagnose Errors with Managed Debugging Assistants - 2022-MAR-11](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/debug-trace-profile/diagnosing-errors-with-managed-debugging-assistants)
* Stefan: The current plan from previous meetings is to explore the name evolution after the errata publication

## 3.7 Status of Wikipedia page

* Ongoing

## 3.8 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

* Skipped

## 3.9 Vote on liaison with OpenSSF [https://openssf.org](https://openssf.org/)

* David: 
  * Shortly summarizes the rationale for and modes of liaisons
  * OpenSSF has asked OASIS if there is interest inside the SARIF TC for entering a liaison
  * Suggests to vote on our side if there is sufficient interest, next OpenSSF will vote on their side
  * In case there is sufficient interest the TC should vote on who and how that liaison should be implemented.

Jeff moves to enter a liaison relationship with OpenSSF. Michael seconds.
All discuss the motion.
No further discussion, no objection, unanimous consent. The motion carries.

David: Vote for entering the liaison relationship. 
Result of vote: 8 in favor, 0 against, 0 abstain.
Vote in favor of the relationship, so the SARIF TC will enter such a relationship.

Discussion on candiate for representing the liaison:

* Michael: 
  * Michael Scovetta is the Microsoft representative for the OpenSSF Alpha-Omega project.
  * Michael Fanning might be able to take on that role in case the OpenSSF meeting frequency would be feasible for him
* David: Small liaison group may be positive (more robust) while a larg group may become counter productive.
* Thanassis: ForAllSecure as company might be able to help

David: Next meeting we will vote on who this liaison shall be.
# 4. Other Business

None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)

* DECISION to enter a liaison relationship with OpenSSF
* DECISION to schedule meetings on June 16 and June 30

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)

* ACTION on Chris to prepare proposals for a domain name to host a future SARIF central information site.

# 6. Next Meeting

  ```
  May  26, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 7. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
