# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Chris      | Wysopal   | Veracode          | Member                  |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Voting Member           |
| Johnathan  | Gilday    | Contrast Security | Member                  |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Member                  |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc.  | Voting member           |
| Pavel      | Mikula    | Sonar             | Member                  |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/70057/agenda_2020220616.html

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-05-26_Meeting #59](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=69965&wg_abbrev=sarif)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Paul to provide Grammatech search domains:
  * COMPLETE [as per attachment of email to TC list on 2022-MAY-26](https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/sarif/202205/msg00020.html)
* ACTION on Chris M. to secure / purchase the proposed domain
  * COMPLETE
* ACTION on Michael to initiate contact with OpenSSF
  * ONGOING - identified working group to contact "security tools" meeting every other Tuesday
* ACTION on David to help Michael with the SARIF schema for the Errata
  * COMPLETE
* ACTION on Chris M. to invite David and Michael on a website review meeting
  * COMPLETE
* ACTION on Chris M. to solicit a working example from WhiteSource of their scenario
  * ONGOING - meetings are being scheduled
* ACTION on Chris M. to prepare a demo of the VS Code auto fix functionality
  * COMPLETE
 
## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

* Chris Wysopal will obtain voting rights at the end of the next meeting.
* Johnathan Gilday will obtain voting rights at the end of the next meeting.
* Pavel Mikula will obtain voting rights at the end of the next meeting.

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Mary Martin will obtain voting rights at the end of this meeting.
### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ```
    June 30
    ```
- Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ```
    July 14
    July 28
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 OpenSSF

### 3.1.1 Choose who will act as liaison

* Thanassis: Volunteers to act as liaison
* Jeff: Possibly Contrast Security might share some liaison duties
* Michael: Microsoft may assist taking over liaison duties when shared with others 
* David: Proposal is that the Liaison Group is: Thanassis, Contrast Security, and Microsoft
  * Motion: So moved, seconded, and approved with unanimous consent.
### 3.1.2 Arrange to initiate contact with OpenSSF

* David: Next step is to contact the Security Tools OpenSSF working group
* Michael: Will kindly request assistance from Microsoft contact to speed up contact and initiation.

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review recruitment effort to complete the technical committee

* No news
* David: Proposes to remove this item from future agendas
* No objection all agree
## 4.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* Michael: Will ensure the remaining tasks noted on ticket at github are completed and then sends back to David for completion of submittal to OASIS for progression

## 4.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Mary: SARIF integration for various linters ongoing (PRs in progress) some already accepted by the repository owners
* Michael: GitHub has interest and thus has helpfully contacted some of those respective repository owners to accelerate the SARIF format capabilities in use there
* Michael: Progress has been made at Microsoft on tracking code locations for results as the developers are making edits 
* Michael: Internal discussions at Microsoft for inclusion of SARIF shared components into native Mircosoft tools (esp. C++)
* Michael: Other progress will be shown in the demo by Mary later in the meeting
## 4.4 Any continued report/discussion on metrics

None

## 4.5 Discussion of updates to SARIF web site [https://www.sarif.info](https://www.sarif.info)

* Website starting page shown during Meeting
* David: Reminds every member organization that wants to be listed there to speak up

## 4.6 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

None

## 4.7 Status of Wikipedia page

* David: 
  * Finalized the draft including additional links [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:SARIF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:SARIF)
  * Intents to submit by wikipedia folks by tomorrow
  * Afterwards following iterative review changes it will be published
  * Still focused on static analysis, intent is to amend with non-static analysis once we updated our charter
  
## 4.8 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

None

# 5. Other Business

* Mary presents a demo of 
  * detection-to-fix cycle in visual studio including instant drop of detected warnings after fix in editor
* Michael: Reports on plans for command line options to automatically apply fixes non-interactively
* Nathan: How does this work when the positions are only offsets? So, you really need the exact checkout matching the report
* All discuss the implications of which role (developer client, repository server, ...) may be best suited to establish the environment matching the report before fix suggestions
* Michael: Answers Jeff's question on relative offsets (instead of only line numbers) by pointing to the existing logical position where one could give a fully qualified function name
* Michael: Reports on the upcoming demo on remote analysis consumption in a later meeting

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)

* DECISION on Liaison Group

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)

* Ongoing actions exist
* ACTION on Michael to send around links how to download and try new versions of tools with the new capabilities

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  Jun  30, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
