# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Member                  |
| Aharon     | Abadi     | WhiteSource       | Voting Member           |
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Chris      | Wysopal   | Veracode          | Voting member |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Voting Member           |
| Johnathan  | Gilday    | Contrast Security | Member                  |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Member                  |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting member           |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc.  | Voting member           |
| Pavel      | Mikula    | Sonar             | Voting member |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |
| Yossi      | Banai     | Microsoft         | Member                  |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/70160/agenda_20220714.html

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-06-30_Meeting #61](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=70117&wg_abbrev=sarif)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair David)

* ACTION on Michael to initiate contact with OpenSSF
  * COMPLETE
* ACTION on Chris M. to solicit a working example from WhiteSource of their scenario
  * ONGOING
 
## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Aharon Abadi will obtain voting rights at the end of this meeting.
* Johnathan Gilday will obtain voting rights at the end of this meeting.
* Yossi Barnai will obtain voting rights at the end of this meeting.

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

* Aditya Sharad will regain voting rights at the end of next meeting if he attends.

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ```
    July 28
    ```
- Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)

    ```
    August 11
    August 25
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security, Microsoft

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * Initial participation prepared by Michael
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * Not discussed 

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* Michael has finished review and alignment the prose with schema and will send the zip archive containing all artifacts to David after the meeting.
* Michael notes that the content in the zip archive refers to a renamed branch and thus may be impacted by the outcome of the discussion on 4.6.

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Mary reports that support work is ongoing and propagation of updates.
* Michael notes the issue [GCC now supports SARIF as an output format](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/531) which informs about a proposed SARIF extension for GCC by David Malcolm.
* Michael especially emphasizes the replay feature that the extension proposed to the GCC maintainers implements.
* Michael mentions that now the Microsoft, the clang and maybe soon the gcc compilers support SARIF.

## 4.3 Discussion of updates to SARIF web site [https://www.sarif.info](https://www.sarif.info)

* Mary one batch update complete and another is pending assumed to be complete in a week.

## 4.4 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* Chris M. demos a proof of concept presenting the triggering and behavior of rerun analysis per the Visual Studio IDE SARIF Viewer / Extension.
* All discuss use cases and security implications.

## 4.5 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

None

## 4.6 Discuss migration of the SARIF GitHub repository from master to main [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-branches-in-your-repository/renaming-a-branch)

* Michael shortly motivates the proposed name change and refers to the mitigating tools for rerouting requests to renamed branches by the GitHub platform.
* Stefan notes that the name of the default branch may be to be administered by the organization
* All discuss
* Michael asks if David, Michael, and Stefan can go ahead and collaborate with TC admin to implement the change
* Paul is in favor of the renaming
* Pavel is not favor of the renaming and kindly requests moving the discussion to next meeting
* Michael proposes to discuss before next meeting vie the TC mailing list
* All are in favor
* David suggests to try the mailing list and if we do not find agreement before next meeting to revisit during next meeting


# 5. Other Business

None

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair David)

None

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair David)

* Ongoing action exists
* ACTION on David to ask Chet Ensign on procedures and permissions to rename the TC repository branch 

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  Jul  30, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
