# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
|            |           |                   |                         |
Jeff Williams, Mary Martin, David Keaton, Thanassis Avgerinos, Pavel Mikula, Paul Anderson, Yekaterina O'Neil, Chris Wysopal, Nathan Baird, Michael Fanning, Aditya Sharad, Jerry Sullivan (MicroFocus) attending.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)


## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/70216/agenda_20220728.html
Mike moves to approve, Paul Anderson seconds, no discussion, objections, agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-07-14_Meeting #61](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=70165&wg_abbrev=sarif)
Mike moves to approve, Paul Anderson Seconds, no discussion, objections, minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair David)

* ACTION on Chris M. to solicit a working example from WhiteSource of their scenario
  * Complete.
* ACTION on David to ask Chet Ensign on procedures and permissions to rename the TC repository branch
  * Complete. We should have sufficient permissions, Chet will confirm. Otherwise he can take the action on our behalf.

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting
If Aharon arrives during the meeting, he will obtain voting rights. Aditya has voting rights as of end of this meeting.

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    August 11
    August 25
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * None
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * TBD.

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work
- SARIF viewer/SDK bug fixing on going.
- Demo prepared for 'rerun analysis'
- CWE taxonomy authoring in flight.

## 4.3 Discussion of updates to SARIF web site [https://www.sarif.info](https://www.sarif.info)
- All images obtained, being incorporated currently.
- Web site update and ready to show by next committee meeting.

## 4.4 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions
- No offline subgroup discussions occurred.

## 4.5 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)
- Mary demonstrates the end-to-end demo for rerunning analysis.
- Mike asked about settings persistence, Pavel says per-session too frequent, save them once per exe location. Put them in VS global settings as user-level settings.
- We should unify VS and VS code UX.
- Nathan: VS code has security prompts, repurpose that language. https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/workspace-trust.
- Complete a privacy/security review.
- Can we add something explicit to queue up a local installation?
- Sync the repo, download the tool, build appropriate build, configure the build, invoke the tool. What about runtime conditions for the repro (environment variables, etc.)? Perhaps we should integrate with test code.
- https://github.com/features/codespaces could be used to provide a fix ready repro environment.
- How portable can SARIF be? Mike says there are slots for everything but the standards are different.
- Jeff says you can't deliver all the context/richness, it would be a great contribution but it looks very ambitious.
- Jeff says reproducibility is key. This would span many domains in addition to security.
- 'No repro' is death to fix rates/tool uptake, is ParaSoft working on this? Perhaps we follow up with them.
- Jeff says can we cover a subset, simple local tools, what about docker, can we grow into a larger standard?
- Thanassis: let's be willing to grab 80% of the problem.
- What about RR (time travel debugging) actually not large data, there is a replay mechanism here. Is there a data format we can inspect?
- ACTION item: Thanassis, not August 11 but next one, the 25th, present runtime-specific data 
- Jeff: shall we make SARIF open/extensible? and get collaborators, make it crowd-sourcable?

## 4.6 Final decision on migration of the SARIF GitHub repository from master to main [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-branches-in-your-repository/renaming-a-branch)
- Microsoft supports the change
- Aditya notes the change should be seamless if we follow the GitHub branch rename process.
- Paul Anderson provides support
- Pavel doesn't perceive the value but will support it.
- Stefan believes it's good to rename but would prefer a more precise/descriptive name other than main.
- We can create arbitrary stable references to 'main' by using tags.
- ACTION: David will provide the required OASIS links.

# 5. Other Business
Wikipedia entry in draft, was declined, need for official citations cited as reason. David to follow-up. 
How does SARIF interact with other SBOM standards? Should we compare/contrast? Can SARIF fit into it?

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair David)

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair David)

* ACTION: Mike to get someone scheduled for OpenSSF
* ACTION: Mike: Rename from master to main, URL
* ACTION: Mary: Continue to develop fixes scenario.
* ACTION: Mary: Web site changes finalized and shipped.
* ACTION: Dvid: Keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
* ACTION: David: Add Roadmap review & SBOM/other standards, to agenda, discuss goals

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  Aug  11, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment
Mike moves to adjourn, Paul Anderson Seconds, no discussion, no objections, adjournment approved.
