# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Voting Member           |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Member                  |
| Johnathan  | Gilday    | Contrast Security | Member                  |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Pavel      | Mikula    | Sonar             | Voting Member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/70257/agenda_20220811.html

Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-07-28_Meeting #61](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=70219&wg_abbrev=sarif)

Minutes were approved

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair David)

* ACTION on David to add Roadmap review and SBOM/other standards to agenda for discussion of goals
  * COMPLETE 
* ACTION on David to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on David to provide the required OASIS links for stable references of TC repository artifacts
  * COMPLETE 
* ACTION on Mary to continue to develop fixes scenario
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on Mary to finalize web site changes and ship them
  * COMPLETE
* ACTION on Michael to get someone scheduled for OpenSSF
  * COMPLETE 
* ACTION on Michael to rename from master to main (URL)
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on Thanassis to present runtime-specific data, not August 11 but next one, the 25th  
  * ONGOING (not yet due)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Gerald Sullivan will receive voting privileges

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    August 25
    ```
- Proposed Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    September 15
    September 29
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * Next meeting scheduled for beginning of September (presumably 6th)
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * WIP

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* Michael: Some changes in support from the side of Microsoft but we will move on (docs support)
* David: Kindly asks to convey thanks to Courtny for doing such a great job.

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Mary: Working on better support in Visual Studioo for general SARIF support
* Mary: POC requested for result source efforts
* Mary: Working on fixes

## 4.3 Discussion of updates to SARIF web site [https://www.sarif.info](https://www.sarif.info)

* Mary: We did update teh website
* All: Walk through the website
* Mary: Includes renaming of collaborators that changed name (Whitesource is now Mend), added Java links, etc
* David: Wikipedia reviewers have been rejecting the current draft because many links point to source code sites and it seems that would require to much effort for reviewers to vet the relation
* Michael: Assumes the references mostly point to github source code sites instead of OASIS links.
* Pavel: Proposes in terms of process to follow the reviewer suggestsion to have an undebated version publicly available and add the removed content in different form later
* Michael: Is convinced that we may have misinterpreted the reviewer feedback
* David: Kindly asks for additioanl references
* Michael: requests an action on him vor that

## 4.4 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* Mend members met with Chris Meyer to support completing the auto-fix scenario

## 4.5 Discuss end-to-end results management (including code insights protocol)

None

## 4.6 Roadmap review

* Michael: Suggests we review the existing roadmap and move on to further specific topics
* Michael: Internal discussions le participated in focus mostly on security related analysis
* Michael: Likes to ask the group if there is interest and support for exploring security related topics
* Stefan: Suggests to explore our possible contributions to an actionable security ecosystem as the security tech offering TCs to him look more like "lmany fences, only few farmers"
* Stefan: An example https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=csaf where a lot of integration and extension has been achieved including CVE, CPE, TLP, VEX, SBOM (spdx, cyclonedx, swid)
* Michael: Some links associated to the suggested partners, existing work, etc.:
  * https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=cti-cybox
  * https://oasis-open.github.io/cti-documentation/stix/intro.html
  * https://github.com/CybOXProject/schemas/blob/master/objects/Win_Executable_File_Object.xsd#L612
* Michael: Three main dimensions he sees as important in the security arena and aligned with our existing and possible future contributions:
  * Raw telemetry
  * Standards for analysing the data and reaching conclusions
  * How to deidentify the data for sharing or long term use  
* Jeff: 
  * The data has to come together - for now SARIF cannot provide it yet, but it seems to be possible to align a slightly extended SARIF with surrounding devices to achieve some of it
  * To summarize: SBOM looks good, SARIF looks good, but these are more ornaments and not yet the whole tree the security industry needs
  * Integrations points?
* Stefan: Sees only possible way to go per extension / integration points but we should pla twice the effort: One part to come up with suggestions and the other to defend the simplicity of such "intrusion" points
* David: Suggests someone should ideally prepare a page accessible to boost the discussion on that topic over the next meeting
* Michael: Suggests to formulate the strengths of SARIF to prepare for integration / extension point negotiations
* Jeff: Kindly requests an action on him to provide that seed page David hinted at.  

## 4.7 SBOM/other standards

* Jeff: Thinks SBOM was already touched at the end of the previous section
* Michael: Kindly asks if Stefan could transform his decade long experience at OASIS into a short writeup who would be probably relevant as contact partners
* Jeff: Might already have such similar lists / overviews but thinks these lists might be short
* Nathan: 
  * Open Telemetry already defines the relationships already that could also be a contact point for that list (cf. eg. https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/semantic_conventions/span-general/#source-code-attributes)
  * Mostly any offering that already offers graphs to navigate the information and relations (cf. eg. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/overview)
* Michael: The tool owners in this TC should all be interested in having devices to provide vulnerabilities in a connected world (example credential exposure, how to actionably support such incidents / findings)
* Jeff: Interpretability for consumers of the security information
* Stefan:
* David: Kindly asks Stefan to put the list ito a github page to also foster future discussion
* Michael: Should we start a subgroup (schedule meeting for mid next week) to support the harvest of relevant attachment points to support Stefan (Michael proposes to take notes)

# 5. Other Business

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair David)

* DECISION to meet in September on 15th and 29th.

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair David)

* There are ongoing actions from previous meetings
* ACTION on Michael to provide additional references for the wikipedia
* ACTION on Jeff to provide an initial seed page at github to foster the future roadmap / extension discussion
* ACTION on Stefan to create a list for plausible potential as a github page for boosting the SBOM/other standards discussion
* ACTION on Michael to invite for a subgroup meeting mid next week or thereafter to kick-off the evaluation of potential other standards to align with in the security realm

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  Aug  25, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
