# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Member                  |
| Chris      | Wysopal   | Veracode          | Member                  |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Voting Member           |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Voting Member           |
| Johnathan  | Gilday    | Contrast Security | Member                  |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc.  | Member                  |
| Pavel      | Mikula    | Sonar             | Voting Member           |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/70383/agenda_20220929.html

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-09-15_Meeting #66](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=70337&wg_abbrev=sarif)

Minutes were approved.
## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on David to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on Mary to continue to develop fixes scenario
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on Thanassis to present runtime-specific data (on September 29th - this meeting)
  * To present today
* ACTION on Michael to provide additional references for the wikipedia
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Jeff to provide an initial seed page at github to foster the future roadmap / extension discussion
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on David to remove the "Discussion of updates to SARIF web site" item from future agendas
  * COMPLETE 

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

* Charles Wilson

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Chris Wysopal

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

* Paul Anderson

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Jeff Williams intends to declare a leave of absence for November.

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    October 13
    October 27
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * Liaison group attended OpenSSF Sep 27th meeting.
  * The OpenSSF group is working on scope and goals.
  * One of the key goals is broader adoption.
  * Fruitful discussion on SPDX 3.0 coming out soon.
  * This first meeting was introductory for SARIF members.
  * The team is excited about the possibility of cross-collaboration and contribution.
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * Nothing reported

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Presentation of runtime-specific data (Thanassis)

* Presentation of runtime data by Thanassis. 
  * Thanassis walked through the Mayhem Heroes program and his team's experience of adding security scanning and SARIF reports to over 1,000 GitHub projects and how it relates to the ecosystem.
  * Shared a few thoughts with the group:
  	* Consuming SARIF reports just as important (or more!) as creating them
  	  * aggregation, longitudinal trends, branching key for understanding (parallels with issue mgmt)
  	* Bringing this back to the developer necessary for maintenance
  	  * automation, closer to testing frameworks, integration with dev tools
  	* Is a clean SARIF report associated with quality
  	* Responsible disclosure flows for OSS
* Nathan:
  * Mentioned similar issues related to how to do integrations with issue management and automatically create issues in Azure DevOps through .sarif file rules.
  * Tooling is not currently publicly available.
  * Added that .editor configuration files can also be used for the same role and there is room for synergy there between editors and pipelines.
*	Thanassis pointed out some of the lack of quality reports for SCM projects based on SARIF report contents.
* Nathan pointed out that this is typically part of Governance and Group policy and some teams have solutions for automatically capturing defects of certain types and preventing builds when these occur. No commonly available solution/standard exists here.
* Charles Wilson:
  * Pointed out that we have not yet succeeded in equating a clean SARIF report with quality.
  * Sometimes warnings are ignored (otherwise they would be errors!) and it is difficult for developers to trust SAST findings.
  * Discussion followed on how dynamic analysis findings can be more reliable.
  * Last, Charles pointed out a gap in SAST results on the system of systems space and how SARIF findings for the overall system can be very hard to communicate to individual teams and developers for resolution.

## 4.2 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* David reporting SARIF 2.1 errata: ongoing - no new updates

## 4.3 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Mary 
  * VS Code extension has the automatic pulling of results from codeQL, what was shown in demos is released.
  * Demo that was shown last week for C++ compiler work has an associated published blog post. 
  * Several bug bashes with Nathan Baird for latest releases of Visual Studio extensions.
        

## 4.4 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

None

## 4.5 Discuss end-to-end results management

None

Note: Roadmap discussion delayed for future meeting.
(Future 4.x: At the next meeting there will likely be agenda items for a roadmap review, and to discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards.)

# 5. Other Business


...

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Chair David)

None

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Chair David)

* There are ongoing actions from previous meetings

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  Oct  13, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
