# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Member                  |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Voting Member           |
| Johnathan  | Gilday    | Contrast Security | Member                  |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting member           |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc.  | Member                  |
| Pavel      | Mikula    | Sonar             | Voting Member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/70435/agenda_20221013.html

Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-09-29_Meeting #67](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=70429&wg_abbrev=sarif)

Minutes were approved

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on David to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * Michael continues 
* ACTION on Mary to continue to develop fixes scenario
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael to provide additional references for the wikipedia
  * COMPLETE
* ACTION on Jeff to provide an initial seed page at github to foster the future roadmap / extension discussion
  * ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Charles Wilson
* Paul Anderson

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    October 27
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * Thanassis: no update as meeting was cancelled
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * No update

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* David: Addressed all comments from Yekatarina and all but one comment from Michael. Plans to move to Michael after final comment addressed.
* Michael: Courtneys departure requires maybe some additional arrangements for support.

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Mary: Reports on big Microsoft push towards security and thus pushes the SARIF (press announcement Yesterday) w.r.t. Github advanced security and Azure.
* Mary: C++ compiler team more closely working with the Visual Studio itself
* Mary: Also plans to include the SARIF functionality included into the Visual Studio installer.

## 4.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No news.

## 4.4 Discuss end-to-end results management

* No news.

## 4.5 Review Roadmap

* Michael: 8 topics identified
  * Close Wikipedai page and errata
  * Review non-breaking changesfor an incremental release
  * SARIF eco-system advances that serve TC members / others (fixes)
  * Reference implementations for fingerprints, REST API, SARIF-as-SQL, etc.
  * Exploring deep topics at the "edges" of SARIF, e.g. results management
  * Broad advances into new topics, e.g. dynamic analysis
  * New initiatives

## 4.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* ...

# 5. Other Business

...

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet once in November on 10th (also Europe and North America have completed the switch from Dalyight Savings Time)

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* There are ongoing actions from previous meetings
* ACTION on ...

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  Oct  27, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was ...
