# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                    |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:---------------------------|
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Member                     |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                      |
| Johnathan  | Gilday    | Contrast Security | Voting Member              |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Voting Member              |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting member, taking notes|
| Pavel      | Mikula    | Sonar             | Voting Member              |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member              |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member              |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/download.php/70473/agenda_20221027.html

Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2022-10-13_Meeting #68](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/221013_SARIF_TC_68.md)

Minutes were approved

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Michael to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Mary to continue to develop fixes scenario
  * COMPLETE
* ACTION on Jeff to provide an initial seed page at github to foster the future roadmap / extension discussion
  * ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

Chris Wysopal

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

Aditya Sharad
Jeff Williams

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconferences (Thursdays at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    November 10
    December 8
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * No update as Michael missed the invite to the most recent meeting and Thanassis was sick.
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * No update

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* David: will hand off errata and current version of redlined doc to Mary for completion.

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Mary: Demos Visual Studio support for dismissing alerts obtained from GitHub Advanced Security (such that alerts are permanently dismissed in the remote store). VS Code support is in flight.
* Thanassis (via chat) suggests future discussion on this scenario as progress unfolds.
* Mary: Pursuing GHAS for multi-language runs as well as code fixes.
* Michael: We will propose to add SARIF export to [Credo](https://github.com/rrrene/credo) `Elixir` language SA tool.

## 4.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No news.

## 4.4 Discuss end-to-end results management

* Microsoft continuing to pursue full-featured investigate/fix/dismissal GHAS experience from both VS and VS Code. Development is ongoing for `GHAS for ADO` alerts 

and results management features (also SARIF-driven), recently announced by MS, discussed at previous TC meeting.

## 4.5 Review Roadmap

* Roadmap review discussed deferred due to absences and lack of collected survey data.
* Mary has developed a Teams survey to collect information re: each member's mission statement for participation, prioritization of tactical vs. strategic directions for TC work, and tangible commitments to providing resources to make progress.
* Michael: it is probably useful to separate tactical vs. strategic efforts into two work-streams. Microsoft has an ongoing commitment to fostering ongoing SARIF adoption, etc. (i.e., more tactical concerns), but has pulled budget for driving more strategic efforts (such as significant design changes, major version release, etc.). As always with resource issues, this is not a fixed situation and could be reconsidered in future. Microsoft is definitely interested in participating in strategic planning/discussion. Certain cybersecurity focused teams internally have expressed the strongest interest.
* Charles: there is a joint effort, with ISO participating, for threat analysis risk assessments for vehicles, to standardize material that documents the analysis, etc., critical to developing compute-sensitive vehicles. SARIF could be a mechanism, as designed to deliver some of this data. For example, a penetration test can be expressed as a series of steps. SARIF can reference external documents. Each run comprise a dedicated security operation. The thought is to use SARIF as the core, design a schema for what's beyond it. Issue tracking is an immediate concern, SARIF is appropriate to drive their creation. The medical and automotive industries do not lead in use of modern/current tools, etc. SARIF is an established, mature format that would accelerate things. Another concrete example is the need to baseline existing technical debt to onboard compliance processes such as AVCDL (another core SARIF scenario).
* Michael: it sounds like SARIF could, in fact, be leveraged as is for your purposes and we should developer the conversation. Let's schedule a sub-group meeting.
* David: let's create an agenda item for Charles to present on AVCDL and his vision for SARIF utilization.
* Charles: agreed, there is a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yZSB31yHTNc) that could be useful prep.

## 4.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* Postponed

# 5. Other Business

None

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet once only in December (12/8) to accommodate holiday schedules and create more space for those who choose to pursue sub-group topics.

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* There are ongoing actions from previous meetings
* ACTION: Michael to coordinate with Charles to schedule sub-group meeting.

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  Nov  10, 2022 / 08:00-09:30 PDT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
