# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

* David K.: OASIS modified rules: guests no longer allowed

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                         |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:--------------------------------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog             | Voting Member                   |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member                   |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Voting Member                   |
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft         | Member                          |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                           |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat           | Member                          |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Voting Member                   |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft         | Voting Member                   |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc.  | Voting Member                   |
| Pavel      | Mikula    | Sonar             | Voting Member                   |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary                       |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member                   |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member                   |


## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/70850/agenda_20230309.html

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-01-19 Meeting #72](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=70816&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Michael to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * Action is up for adoption
  * Ongoing, Michael not present.
* ACTION on Jeff to provide an initial seed page at github to foster the future roadmap / extension discussion
  * Ongoing, Jeff not present.
* ACTION on David to contact Jeff on participating March, 9 so we can discuss the initial seed page at github on future roadmap / extension
  * Ongoing, cf. new actions.
* ACTION on Thanassis to assess the 10000+ findings due to dynamic analysis on active GitHub repos and see how these fit in and report at the next TC meeting
  * no change needed, so no proposal for change. Closed.

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    April 20 (daylight savings time in effect)
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * Cancellations, no updates.
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * No news.

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* Chris presented notes from Michael:
  * Microsoft (MS) has hired someone who can help finalize errata, his name is Craigh, will be introduced to David K. next week.

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Mary and Chris (Chris presented notes from Michael):
  * Mend engagement: MS tested updated Mend output, found two remaining issues. With those resolved, fixes can be applied to code files.
  * Shipped several updates to the SARIF viewers.
  * Fixed issues in the online validation web site.
  * HDF converter fix contribution from the community. 
  * Refining VS & VS Code connectivity to remote stores. Working with Nathan as well on this topic (and viewer refactoring) in support of Dev Canvas.
  * Partnering with Visual Studio on a timeline for driving SARIF viewer into VS installer (in support of advanced visualizations of MS C++ analyzer results).

## 4.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

No updates.

## 4.4 Discuss end-to-end results management

None.

## 4.5 List of small, non-breaking open requests to consider as a dot release of the SARIF standard

* Chris presented notes from Michael:
  * MS has committed to developing a non-breaking dot-release of the standard. MS engineer driving this is named Ross,
     will be in attendance at next meeting, where we will review the overall list of small SARIF changes.
     If you have non-breaking changes of interest, now's a great time to file those things.

## 4.6 Review Roadmap

* Chris presented notes from Michael:
  * Overall roadmap, no progress.  Cycles are currently still tight for the standard and focused on tactical design changes and eco-system work.

## 4.7 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* Charles: explained philosophy of artifact references to enable full replication of an invocation
    Ref to the Penetration Testing document. Interesting bits on page 12 of
    https://github.com/nutonomy/AVCDL/blob/main/distribution/reference_documents/secondary_documents/Penetration%20Testing%20Report.pdf
* Nathan: raises the issue of the necessity of local resources e.g. tools, exes, etc.

# 5. Other Business

* Adar: add JFrog mission to TC mission statement
  * Mary will incorporate
* Mary has reached out to Ross re: membership
* David M. C++ representation of results which contain enhanced, formatted details/diagnostics e.g. json
  * https://lists.isocpp.org/sg15/2022/07/1686.php
  * https://lists.isocpp.org/sg15/2022/07/1688.php
  * P2429 tracking status https://github.com/cplusplus/papers/issues/1239
Paul: we might not have full support here

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet again on 2023-APR-20

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* There are ongoing actions from previous meetings
* ACTION on David K. to talk to Jeff to roll over to meeting 2023-APR-20

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  April 20 8:00 PDT 15:00 UTC 1.5 hrs
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.



