# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog             | Voting Member           |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat           | Voting Member           |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Voting Member           |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Member                  |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Member                  |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc.  | Voting Member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71048/agenda_20230525.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71048&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-04-20 Meeting #74](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=70946&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Michael to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * Action is up for adoption
  * ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* Mary Martin

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Nathan Baird

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    June 15
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    July 13
    ```
- Possible face-to-face meeting when pandemic permits

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * No news
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * No news

* Charles:
  * Announces an SAE liaison report he will send to the TC mailing list
  * Esp. he suggested to rename the static in SARIF to systematic
  * These circles currently discuss the possibilities that SARIF brings

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [List of next steps - github issue #509](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/509)

* Stefan: reported
  * "[Errata01 schema addition to region is invalid #578](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/578)"
    * All discuss the issue and if the proposed change shall enter the Errata01 package
      * Stefan moves to move the anyOf block from the inner into the outer properties object. Aditya seconds.
        * No discussion, no objections, unambiguous consent. The motion carries. 
    * ACTION on Charles to create a github issue to request we describe how we test and target the next minor revision
  * "[Errata01 section 3.13.3, 4.3.2 (note 2 both) and title page - verify Schema URL is well chosen #577](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/577)"
    * All discuss on the specificity of the URLs to artifacts
      * Stefan moves to make the artifact links more specific as proposed but keeping the csd01 path part as advised by TC admins. Adar seconds.
      * No discussion, no objections, unambiguous consent. The motion carries. 
* David Malcolm: reported "[Which goes first - 'version' or '$schema'? #571](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/571)"
  * All discuss
  * Aditya: Suggests to fix examples to maintain a consistent order
  * David Malcolm moves to make the order in examples consistent. Stefan seconds. 
* Aditya: Has the issue of pull request [Fix language pattern regex. Lone quantifier brackets error. #562](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/562) made it into the Errata01.
* Stefan: Yes it has as noted in the package JSON diff file.
* Aditya and David Malcolm support the proposal at https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/562#discussion_r1158093807
  * ACTION on David Keaton and Stefan to tag the past releases to align to the docs.oasis-open.org.
* David Malcolm likes to know the license of the schema files at docs.oasis-open.org
  * David Keaton asked administration on that. 
  * Stefan mentions: "[Proposal to move to versioned spec structure #579](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/579)"" as supportive (when the proposal is ready) to tagging - supporting multiple spec versions in parallel.
* David Keaton: Are there any further issues on the Errata01 bundle.
* Michael: Are all examples in the prose still validating against the schema
  * David Keaton: These issues have been fixed.
* David Malcolm: questions on how to see the details of the change log.
  * David Keaton: These are in the zip file as separate document   
* Charles: Page 47 has a schema URL reference - are we sure to be consistent across other occurences in the document
  * Some discuss MS Word specifics but all agree to 
* No other issues known.
* David Keaton: Will create a new errata bundle based on the decisions taken
  * All agree that the TC will vote for the following during the June 15 meeting:
    1. Shall the TC approve these documents as Committee Specification Draft Errata?
    2. Does the TC agree that the Errata do not constitute a Material Change?
    3. Does the TC approve requesting that OASIS initiate a 15-day public review of the errata?

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* No news

## 4.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No news

## 4.4 Discuss end-to-end results management

* No news

## 4.5 List of small, non-breaking open requests to consider as a dot release of the SARIF standard

* Michael: Proposes features to be implemented within the scope of a version 2.2 spec release
* David Malcolm: Who has the rights to apply labels to issues?
* Michael: Explains the history of label policies from the beginnings of the SARIF spec collaboration
* Stefan: Technically all maintainers of the sarif-spec repository
* David Malcolm: Proposes [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530) to go into v2.2
  * No one objects
* Stefan: Proposes that also [Provide a SARIF v2.2.0 Seed Schema by Enhancing the v2.1.0 Errata 01 Schema #580](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/580) also to go into v2.2 for preparing segmentation
  * No one objects
* Charles: Supports thinking of segmenting to cater different use cases with possibly less complex schema files.
* All discuss validators
* ACTION on Charles to provide links to used validation tools and policies
* Stefan: for v2.2 sees only the 2020-12 draft of JSON Schema as interesting as it matches OpenAPI 3.1 (the stakeholders finally managed to make both standard movements compatible again)

## 4.6 Review Roadmap

* Jeff: Renews his interest to work on the roadmap

## 4.7 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* No news

# 5. Other Business

* None

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet on July 13
* DECISION to move the anyOf block from the inner into the outer properties object
* DECISION to make the artifact links more specific as proposed but keeping the csd01 path part as advised by TC admins
* DECISION to make the order in examples consistent
* DCEISION to vote on the upcoming errata bundle during the June 15 meeting

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on adoption of Wikipedia SARIF page publication
* ACTION on Charles to create a github issue to request we describe how we test and target the next minor revision
* ACTION on David Keaton and Stefan to tag the past releases to align to the docs.oasis-open.org artifacts
* ACTION on Charles to provide links to used validation tools and policies
* ACTION on Michael will drive a review on all open issues and propose a list of issues for v2.2 in next meeting section4.5 of the agenda

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  June 15, 2023 / 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.


