# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog             | Voting Member           |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat           | Voting Member           |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Voting Member           |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Member                  |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft         | Member                  |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71115/agenda_20230615.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71048&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-05-25 Meeting #75](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71062&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Michael to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * Action is up for adoption
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Charles to create a github issue to request we describe how we test and target the next minor revision
  * COMPLETE 
* ACTION on David Keaton and Stefan to tag the past releases to align to the docs.oasis-open.org artifacts
  * COMPLETE per proposal "[Providing a tag for OS v2.1.0 Schema Artifacts as os-v2.1.0 #586](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/586)"
* ACTION on Charles to provide links to used validation tools and policies
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on Michael will drive a review on all open issues and propose a list of issues for v2.2 in next meeting section 4.5 of the agenda
  * ONGOING 

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Jeff Williams

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* Pavel Mikula

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Nathan Baird

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    July 13
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    August 10
    ```

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * None
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * None

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [Proposed Errata](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71114&wg_abbrev=sarif)

* Co-Chair David suggests 
  * to vote instead either on the July meeting or before than per email/ballot system.
  * plans to send out a new errata pack tomorrow
  * assumes one week of review would be sufficient
  * then set up a one week ballot
* All discuss "[Errata01 20230613 version: Example in K.3 has invalid key (typo, missing plural s for container) #589](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/589)
* All agree to fix and to note any errors spotted also in the next review to provide a quality product.

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* No news

## 4.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No news

## 4.4 Discuss end-to-end results management

* No news

## 4.5 Discuss the list of small, non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

* Postponed to next meeting

## 4.6 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

* Jeff Williams walks everyone through the provided document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)
* Charles and Jeff discuss several aspects
* All discuss the roadmap
* Stefan suggests to move on to other aspects for this meeting and provided continued discussion in future meetings with a wider participation
* Co-Chair David encourages Charles to provide a pull request to add extensions to the document
  * ACTION on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
* All continue discussion 
* Stefan understands SARIF files as artifacts and not only ephemeral containers to interchange data
* Co-Chair David suggests to provide ideas for SARIF v3.0 offline and discuss and bring in the results into the online meetings to optimize both the effort on finding the best directions to go and minimize the overall time spent in meetings
* Gerald notes that adding DAST and IAST support is to have a unified medium to store and communicate divers results
* Thanassis reminds on the results from his analysis in 2022 that most fuzz testing needs were already satisfied by properties of the existing SARIF v2.1 specification

## 4.7 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* Nothing in addition to the discussion in section 4.6

# 5. Other Business

* Adar
  * notes that he received a SARIF file with more than 1 Gigabytes size albeit only few findings in it
  * what to do with big files (VSCode could not handle it, was no problem in python proper)
  * all discuss
* David Malcolm
  * created issue "[Support for diagrams in SARIF? #588](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/588)"
  * Stefan points to "[3.11.4.2 Security implications](https://docs.oasis-open.org/sarif/sarif/v2.1.0/os/sarif-v2.1.0-os.html#_Toc34317465)" of the SARIF v2.1 OS related to the topic of including SVG images.
  * all discuss

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to add August 10th to the schedule.
* DECISION to enter a 15 day public commenting period when the review of the to be resubmitted succeeds

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on adoption of Wikipedia SARIF page publication
* Ongoing ACTION (from previous meeting) on Charles to provide links to used validation tools and policies
* ACTION on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
* ACTION on David Keaton to provide the link to the AVCDL presentation (from Charles) again to the TC

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  July 13, 2023 / 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.


