# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog             | Voting Member           |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Voting Member           |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Member                  |
| Paul       | Anderson  | Grammatech, Inc.  | Voting Member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

All thank Paul for his contributions as this will be his final SARIF meeting.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71196/agenda_20230713.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71196&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-06-15 Meeting #76](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71121&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on All to adopt the action on Michael to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Charles to provide links to used validation tools and policies
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on David Keaton to provide the link to the AVCDL presentation (from Charles) again to the TC
  * COMPLETE 

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Nathan Baird

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    August 10
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    September 14
    ```

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * No news
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * No news

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [Proposed Errata](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71114&wg_abbrev=sarif)

* David Keaton: Vote passed: [publicly accessible ballot link](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/ballot.php?id=3782)
  * next step is 15-day public comment period
  * possibly more voting participation needed

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Michael:
  * Internal Visual Studio C++ Team has committed to accept sections of the SARIF OASIS Standard to include in the IDE
  * Will follow up on Visual Code team for roadmap of next fiscal year
  * Davide Malcom has suggested hierarchical diagnostics will be discussed today
  * GitHub requested more support from Microsoft for SARIF exports (a tool named oak ...)
  * OWASP ZAP tool has also adopted the SARIF format and shall be added to the wikipedia page content

## 4.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

No news

## 4.4 Discuss end-to-end results management

No news

* Michael: suggests to merge 4.4 and 4.5 for future agendas

## 4.5 Discuss the list of small, non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

* Michael:
  * Upcoming member Craig will support with editing
  * Plans to discuss with Stefan and Craig the conversion of spec to markdown format
  * Shows an example of a markdown content of issue to become a discussion snippet that might end up as is in the v2.2 spec (with markdown format)
  * All discuss the following issues among [those tagged for possible inclusion in v2.2](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/labels/2.2.0):
    * "[Suggestion: add an `expiryDateUtc` property to `suppression` instances #492](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/492)"
    * "[Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)"
    * "[UTF8 bytes count support as columnKind? #466](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/466)" may profit from further discussion due to the complexity of writing direction switches and ambiguous byte counts for composable characters
    * "[Allow embedded links in multiformatMessage.text #471](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/471)"

## 4.6 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

No news

## 4.7 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

No news

# 5. Other Business

None

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet on September 14 (after the August 10 meeting)

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* There are oncoing actions from previous meetings
* ACTION on David Keaton to merge items 4.4 and 4.5 in future agenda drafts

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  August 10, 2023 / 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.


