# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog             | Voting Member           |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Craig      | Schlaman  | Microsoft         | Member                  |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat           | Voting Member           |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Voting Member           |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Member                  |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71228/agenda_20230810.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71228&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-07-13 Meeting #77](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71191&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on All to adopt the action on Michael to keep pushing to close on the wikipedia page
  * COMPLETE by delegation to Craig
* ACTION on Charles to provide links to used validation tools and policies
  * COMPLETE 
* ACTION on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on David Keaton to merge items 4.4 and 4.5 in future agenda drafts
  * COMPLETE

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

* Craig Schlaman

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Michael Fanning

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* Jeff Williams

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Nathan Baird

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    September 14
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    October 12
    ```

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * None
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * None

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Review status on finalizing SARIF 2.1 errata [Proposed Errata](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71149&wg_abbrev=sarif)

* Address any comments from the 15-day public comment period.
  * Review will end August 18
  * David Keaton: 
    * The TC did not yet receive any comments
    * After end of comment period he likes to send a mail to the TC mailing list proposing a solution to any comments received
    * One week after that if no feedback received from the TC start a vote to publish the Errata (before the September 14 meeting)

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Michael: 
  * A new tool entered in support (export feature)
  * 42crunch requested a modification on GitHub customizations and later to input to TC for future work

## 4.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* None

## 4.4 Discuss the list of small, non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

* Michael:
  * Issue selected for discussion: [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530) 
    * David Malcolm: explains the rationale behind the issue
    * Aditya:
      * asks if this vocabulary is meant to be optional (MAY), strongly suggested (SHOULD) or mandatory (SHALL)? He prefers not to enforce.
      * thinks that sanitization is a hard topic (for general solution) and assumes that the tools will decide what to show and how to hide
    * All: discuss by visiting the SARIF v2.1.0 spec for ways to add support (e.g. 3.19.26 supportedTaxonomies) 
    * ACTION on David Malcolm to prepare the proposal 'Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530' for acceptance by the TC
  * Issue selected for discussion: [Support for diagrams in SARIF? #588](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/588) 
    * Michael: Introduces to some feedback from tools on rendering such artifacts and mentions tool problems around the parallel presence of text and markdown message attributes within SARIF v2.1.0
    * David Malcolm: has created a prototype since creation of the issue 
    * Aditya: suggests we might allow `rendered` (alternate property) on more attributes
    * David Malcolm: besides ASCII art there should be a way to place SVG into a SARIF file
    * All: further discuss the issue
    * Michael: a property bag bight be a last resort to offer artifacts that consumers may use
    * Michael: kindly suggests that David Malcolm signal either that the existing attributes are sufficient or if new attributes are needed 
  * Issue selected for discussion: [Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity` properties #598](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/598)
    * Michael: introduces the history and rationale behind the issue and current extensions at GitHub to levels offered by SARIF v2.1.0
    * Aditya: outlines these extensions (per property bag) in use at GitHub to offer more fine-grained security scanning results
    * Aditya: asks for feedback from other tool creators if e.g. numeric or enumeration (string) values and which
    * Aditya: maybe we need optional fields to open up to other scoring concepts
    * Yekaterina: there has always been a struggle with the granularity of such grading
    * Yekaterina: we looked at precision of rules and engines separately
    * Yekaterina: assumes there will always be a push for further adjustments
    * Yekaterina: it also depends on the context (the severity of a finding)
    * Michael: also sees no fixed scale to be generally useful (also because of security controls added outside of known context)
    * Stefan: sees no good fit about standardizing anything above three grades as mandatory but rather follow Adityas proposal to offer optional (or local?) grading attributes (in parallel)
    * Aditya: the level should be used in automation sense not proportional but related is the security education effect aspect
    * Gerald: problem correlating competing approaches to grading
    * Stefan: this is why I think automatic rescaling may cover up different mappings from such a scale (linear maybe) to severity to another scales mapping (logarithmic?)
    * All: further discuss the issue
    * Michael: tries a summarizing proposal by e.g. shaking off security and then make the value overwritable ...?
    * Aditya: precision is a rule based property (driven by community) which is deliberately not a number for GitHub security tools
    * Aditya: for security we use CVSS score from the outside and is used as worst case prognosis on a vulnerability
    * Yekaterina: for Fortify the precision is built into the rank of the result (fix aggregation of other numbers)
    * Yekaterina: CVSS scores are considered for exploitability and not so much for vulnerabilities
    * All: further discuss the issue
    * ACTION on Aditya to split 'Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity` properties #598' into isolated issues and proposals for `precision` and `security-severity` for acceptance by the TC
    * Michael: notes that the target version and the to-be-discussed label shall be on the issues 

## 4.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

* None

## 4.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* None

# 5. Other Business

* None

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to add October 12 to our schedule

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
* ACTION on David Keaton to send out after comment period end a mail to the TC mailing list with a proposal for how to proceed
* ACTION on David Keaton to follow-up on that mail a week after to push the Errata into the publication loop
* ACTION on David Malcolm to prepare the proposal 'Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530' for acceptance by the TC
* ACTION on Aditya to split 'Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity` properties #598' into isolated issues and proposals for `precision` and `security-severity` for acceptance by the TC

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  September 14, 2023 / 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.


