# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog             | Voting Member           |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat           | Voting Member           |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Voting Member           |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc  | Voting Member           |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

* Aditya Sharad sent regrets.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71329/agenda_20230810.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71329&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-08-10 Meeting #78](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71255&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on David Keaton to send out after comment period end a mail to the TC mailing list with a proposal for how to proceed
  * COMPLETE 
* ACTION on David Keaton to follow-up on that mail a week after to push the Errata into the publication loop
  * COMPLETE 
* ACTION on David Malcolm to prepare the proposal 'Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530' for acceptance by the TC
  * ONGOING 
* ACTION on Aditya to split 'Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity` properties #598' into isolated issues and proposals for `precision` and `security-severity` for acceptance by the TC
  * ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Nathan Baird

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
     October 12
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **16:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    November 9 (after daylight savings time ends)
    ```

# 3. Liaisons

## 3.1 [OpenSSF](https://openssf.org/) Security Tools group

> Liaison Group: ForAllSecure/Thanassis Avgerinos, Contrast Security/Jeff Williams, Microsoft/Michael Fanning

* Report status and any communication from OpenSSF Security Tools
  * No news
* Compose a liaison statement to OpenSSF Security Tools if appropriate
  * No news
  * Michael and Thanassis discuss if the OpenSSF meetings are a good place to act the liaison
  * Michael: Instead of participating regularly in OpenSSF meetings to instead collect overlap topics and approach the OpenSSF directly with these items
  * Charles: Mentions OpenXSAM ("An OPEN format for eXchanging Security Analysis Models") <https://openxsam.io>
    initiatives in the "arena" that despite the XML data store format might overlap with SARIF concerns
  * Michael: Maybe still retain an agenda item and widen to other groups
  * All discuss to simplify the Liaisons agenda item.
  * Michael: Why not move such content to the 4.2 ecosystem agenda item
  * David and Stefan second that proposal and David adds, that liaison has a formal meaning.
* Stefan: Moves to cut the liaison with OpenSSF and move any such future content under the ecosystem agenda item (4.2)
  * Charles: Seconds. 
    * No discussion or objections, unanimous consent. The motion carries.

# 4. Discussion

## 4.1 Status of SARIF 2.1.0 errata ([Publication Request Ticket](https://issues.oasis-open.org/browse/TCADMIN-4409))

* David:
  * The Approved Errata document is in the queue to be published!
  * There is no further action we need to take for it.

## 4.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

* Michael:
  * Contact with someone working with SARIF and Heimdall format
  * There were issues with SPDX an SBOM format
  * Open source web maintenance changed to another team that will continue to maintain the resource
  * Wonders if result fingerprints, conceptual vulnerability ids, and shared locations (that cross domains) seem like essential points of connection
* Charles: New content in the AVCDL YouTube channel <https://www.youtube.com/@AVCDL>  

## 4.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No news

## 4.4 Discuss the list of small, non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

* Issue selected for discussion: [Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity` properties #598](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/598)
  * Michael: 
    * Presents ideas for the proposal on the issue Aditya is working on ('Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and 
      `security-severity` properties #598')
    * Both enumerations should have the same amount of levels and add a `severity` (without the security prefix)
      to the mix. The compiler team at Microsoft suggests to add a `fatal` enumeration value. (From the chat during the meeting):
      * Fatal, Noncontinuable, Critical
      * Critical/Fatal, Error, Warning, Note
      * result would have a `level` property and a `severity` property   
  * Charles:
    * W.r.t. comparison of [quantized rank from the AVCDL repository](https://github.com/nutonomy/AVCDL/blob/main/source/reference_documents/secondary_documents/design%20phase/Ranked%20-%20Risked%20Threat%20Report/images/processed/rank%20quantized.png):
      * CVSS has low, medium, high, critical
      * ISO 21434 has  very low, low, medium, high
  * All: discuss level values (from FIPS and other ISO standards) as 
    per Charles comparison of [quantized risk from the AVCDL repository](https://github.com/nutonomy/AVCDL/blob/main/source/reference_documents/secondary_documents/design%20phase/Ranked%20-%20Risked%20Threat%20Report/images/processed/risk%20quantized.png)
  * Yekatarina: 
    * Four buckets maps nicely to the number of buckets Fortify already presents to the users of their tools (albeit the names
      of the enumerations are different)
    * The way Fortify calculates likelihood is complex and depends on four inputs. Among these are confidence of the engine and
      probability of exploit

## 4.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

* Charles: Shortly walks all through the proposed changes in his pull request
  [corrected error in markdown / corrected grammar #605](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/605) 
  * Added a table in the SARIF Field Compatibility section of the roadmap document
  * Suggests to later break out topics into separate documents
* Stefan: Suggests to only break out topics when it becomes clear the TC wants to expand on a topic
* David: Intention was to have a working document
* Charles: Would like to have such a document not at top level and will provide a folder in this or a later PR
* Stefan: Hints at future changes to the folder structure to cater for multi version navigation of the SARIF repository
* All: 
  * Discuss the mapping of features to a non-breaking SARIF v2.2 considering the strict policy of SARIF v2.1.0 schema 
  * Which instruments (issues, documents) to use - documents like future.md until a topic is understood good enough
    and can be moved to actionable issues which provide proposals in markdown / JSON to be merged via pull requests into schema and prose

## 4.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* No news

# 5. Other Business

* None

# 6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to conduct the November meeting on November, 9 (four weeks after October, 12)
* DECISION to cut the liaison with OpenSSF and move any such future content under the ecosystem agenda item (4.2)

## 6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on David Malcolm to prepare the proposal
  'Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530' for acceptance by the TC
* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on Aditya to split
  'Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity` properties #598' into isolated issues and
  proposals for `precision` and `security-severity` for acceptance by the TC
* ACTION on David Keaton to move any liaison like future content under the ecosystem agenda item (4.2)

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  October 12, 2023 / 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.

