# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

| First Name | Last Name | Company           | Role(s)                 |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------------|
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD       | Voting Member           |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual        | Chair                   |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat           | Voting Member           |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus       | Voting Member           |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security | Member                  | 
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft         | Voting Member           |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual        | Secretary, taking notes |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus       | Voting member           |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71422/agenda_20231012.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71422&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-09-14 Meeting #79](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71338&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
  * ONGOING (progress has been made and in afew weeks new results will be added)
* ACTION on David Malcolm to prepare the proposal 'Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530' for acceptance by the TC
  * COMPLETE (David provided a proposal at <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530#issuecomment-1759778510> before the meeting)
* ACTION on Aditya to split 'Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity` properties #598' into isolated issues and proposals for `precision` and `security-severity` for acceptance by the TC
  * ONGOING (No progress yet)
* ACTION on David Keaton to move any liaison like future content under the ecosystem agenda item (4.2)
  * COMPLETE 

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

* Jeff Williams will gain voting rights at the end of the next meeting in case he participates.

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Nathan Baird

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **16:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    November 9 (after daylight savings time ends)
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **16:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    December 7
    ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Status of SARIF 2.1.0 Approved Errata

* David:
  * Published 2023-09-19! 
  * At <https://docs.oasis-open.org/sarif/sarif/v2.1.0/errata01/os/>

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

* None

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* Michael: 
  * Discussion around v2.2 roadmap
  * Microsoft is working on a feature to accept arbitrary SARIF to a new security alerting capability built into ADO
    and Michael met with Aditya on that topic
* Charles: Mentions the Microsoft tool "[CoseSignTool](https://github.com/microsoft/CoseSignTool)" which is 
  > ... a platform-agnostic command line application to COSE sign files and validate COSE signatures
  > CoseHandler is a library of functions for COSE signing and validation for use by .NET applications
* Michael: Suggests to create an issue for consideration in the SARIF TC repository
* Jeff: Suggests to reuse other JSON schema standards signing strategies as eg [CycloneDX](https://cyclonedx.org/use-cases/#:~:text=%23-,Authenticity,-Digital%20signatures%20may)

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* None

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small, non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

* Suppression of notifications "[Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)"
  * Michael: Walks all through where the TC discussion left off and updates on feedback since the previous meeting
  * Charles: Maybe consider this for SARIF v3.0?
  * Jeff: Asks if SARIF can align with "[Vulnerability Exploitability eXchange (VEX) - Status Justifications](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/VEX_Status_Justification_Jun22.pdf)"
    albeit VEX appears to be neither final nor commonly implemented at this point in time.
    But, so he suggests for SARIF to avoid defining a SARIF specific vocabulary if possible.
  * Aditya: Provides a pointer to the "[Dismissing alerts](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/code-scanning/managing-code-scanning-alerts/managing-code-scanning-alerts-for-your-repository#dismissing--alerts)" section and two related aspects from
    the GitHub Code Security documentation 
  * All: Discuss the feature, possible values/labels, and related use cases
  * Stefan: Isn't risk (of a fix on the correctness of the overall system) out of scope for SARIF (symptoms) notifications / suppressions,
    as assessment of risk for fix-or-not-fix decisions usually belongs to different workflows like "change request handling" that deal with "causes"?
  * Aditya: Continues explaining by whom, how, and when suppressions enter along the code scanning context that end up in the SARIF file
  * Charles: Does not think SARIF should state things about risk - SARIF to not enter the risk arena.
  * Stefan: Will the customers of such a service (as usual) map any "third-party" label system to their own system?
    So, does it really matter which label values we pick for SARIF in the v2.2 specification?
    Maybe the number/granularity is more important?
  * Michael: Agrees that all consumers will have to set up some results management but we should try to simplify the scenarios we know of
  * Michael: Whoever wants to argue against the report or beinfluence the code should have a "communication layer" to do so.
  * All: Continue discussing the feature, possible values/labels, and related use cases
  * Michael: SARIF is made for developer decision making, so the developers should profit from an "inline" place to communicate suppressions and the like
  * Stefan: As suppressions in code and suppresions on results are essentailly the same capability, he understands the suggested feature as 
    an important communication capability between development interested parties within SARIF (as a platform)
  * Michael: Kindly reminds on the meaning of the term "interchange" (the letter "i" in SARIF)

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

* None

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* None

# 4. Other Business

* None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet on December, 7 next after the November meeting

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on Aditya to split 'Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity` properties #598' into isolated issues and proposals for `precision` and `security-severity` for acceptance by the TC

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  November 9, 2023 (after daylight savings time ends) / 08:00-09:30 PT / 16:00-17:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned
