# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of seven or more of the twelve voting members (including the officers).

| First Name | Last Name | Company                 | Role(s)                 | Present |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------------|:------------------------|:--------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog                   | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy  | CIRCL                   | Member                  | No      |
| Andras     | Iklody    | CIRCL                   | Member                  | No      |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD             | Voting Member           | No      |
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual              | Chair                   | Yes     |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat                 | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Duncan     | Sparrell  | sFractal Consulting LLC | Member                  | No      |
| Eddy       | Nakamura  | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Gerald     | Sullivan  | Micro Focus             | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security       | Member                  | No      |
| Kevin      | Greene    | Mitre Corporation       | Member                  | No      |
| Larry      | Hines     | Micro Focus             | Member                  | No      |
| Lori       | Lorusso   | JFrog                   | Observer                | No      |
| Luke       | Cartey    | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                | No      |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft               | Voting Member, scribe 1 | Yes     |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Paul       | Brookes   | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Paul       | Seay      | Northrop Grumman,       | Member                  | No      |
| Ross       | Wollman   | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual              | Secretary, scribe 2     | Yes     |
| Stephen    | Chin      | JFrog                   | Member                  | No      |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voting Member           | No      |
| Tim        | Hudson    | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                  | No      |
| Vadim      | Okun      | NIST                    | Observer                | No      |
| Yekaterina | O'Neil    | Micro Focus             | Voting member           | Yes     |
| Zvika      | Avivi     | Micro Focus             | Observer                | No      |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71476/agenda_20231109.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71476&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-10-12 Meeting #80](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71423&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair David)

* ACTION on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document
  [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
  * ONGOING - Charles is absent
* ACTION on Aditya to split 'Rationalize GitHub/CodeQL-proposed `precision` and `security-severity`
  properties #598' into isolated issues and proposals for `precision` and `security-severity` for acceptance by the TC
  * COMPLETE

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* Thanassis Avgerinos

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **16:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    December 7, 2023
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **16:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    January 11, 2024
    ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

* No news

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* Michael notes GitHub is discussing dynamic validation again
* Nathan:  
  * reports that in his absence, his team has provided some examples of OpenTelemetry observability
     * this may be interesting for how we think about this long term
  * he and his team also plan to file 5 – 7 spec proposals
* David Malcolm:
  * GCC has posted a way to lift its SARIF export capability into a shared library (GPL licensed)
  * Michael asked to be kept informed of this work

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No news

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small, non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

 * Discussion of markdown and whether it warrants re-versioning
   * David Malcolm: we should create a markdown form of 2.1 before authoring 2.2
     * Michael agreed
   * Michael: typically, a standard/API wouldn’t be versioned if the only change is refactoring docs/specese (with no material changes)
   * David Keaton takes an action item to see where OASIS stands on fast-tracking docs changes
     (with minimal/no material churn in meaning/API/etc)
 * SARIF 2.2:
   * Michael provides reminders of existing SARIF properties, level, rank, default configuration
   * Aditya presents on precision (a measure of engine accuracy), and proposes four levels, low, med, high, very high
   * Precision is a specific sorting scenarios for customers and CodeQL does emit all levels and UX utilizes these categories at GitHub
   * Michael: what about likelihood? Other values?
   * Aditya: these are not the provenance of a tool, they are computable only with external context
   * Yekaterina:
     * OpenText focus supports accuracy, confidence, probability, impact and others. A final aggregated number is stored in `result.rank`
     * There is a distinction between engine precision and rule precision for MicroFocus tooling
   * Aditya: in CodeQL, only one
   * Michael proposes we resolve discussion with a `severity` and `precision` property,
     each of which have four levels, low, med, high, and very high
   * Nathan: concerns about `security-severity` but will follow up offline via GitHub issues
   * Some discussion around whether to express CVSS in the format
   * Conclusion in discussion is that this computed value isn’t strictly owned by/originates with the tool,
     therefore, it is less appropriate to include in the SARIF standard

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

* No news

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* No news

# 4. Other Business

* None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair David)

* DECISION to meet on January 11 (five weeks after the Dember meeting)

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair David)

* Ongoing ACTION (from former meetings) on Charles to provide extensions to
  the roadmap document [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
* ACTION on Co-Chair David to to investigate OASIS mechanisms for fast-tracking simple transformation of existing spec to markdown

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  December 7, 2023 08:00-09:30 PT / 16:00-17:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned
