# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of seven or more of the twelve voting members (including the officers).

| First Name | Last Name | Company                 | Role(s)                 | Present |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------------|:------------------------|:--------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog                   | Voting Member           | No      |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy  | CIRCL                   | Member                  | No      |
| Andras     | Iklody    | CIRCL                   | Member                  | No      |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD             | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual              | Chair                   | Yes     |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat                 | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Duncan     | Sparrell  | sFractal Consulting LLC | Member                  | No      |
| Eddy       | Nakamura  | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security       | Member                  | No      |
| Kevin      | Greene    | Mitre Corporation       | Member                  | No      |
| Lori       | Lorusso   | JFrog                   | Observer                | No      |
| Luke       | Cartey    | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                | No      |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | No      |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Paul       | Brookes   | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Paul       | Seay      | Northrop Grumman,       | Member                  | No      |
| Ross       | Wollman   | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Stacy      | Wray      | Microsoft               | Member                  | Yes     |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual              | Secretary, scribe       | Yes     |
| Stephen    | Chin      | JFrog                   | Member                  | No      |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc        | Member                  | Yes     |
| Tim        | Hudson    | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                  | No      |
| Vadim      | Okun      | NIST                    | Observer                | No      |

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71600/agenda_20240111.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71600&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2023-12-07 Meeting #82](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=71565&wg_abbrev=sarif)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Charles to provide extensions to the roadmap document
  [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md) per pull request
  * DONE
* ACTION on Michael to triage old issues
  * ...
* ACTION on Michael to organize label renovation
  * ...

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Stacy Wray
* Thanassis Avgerinos

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **16:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    February 8, 2024
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **16:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    March 7, 2024
    ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

* No news

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* Charles: Sent an email hinting at ITU standard on [X.590 Json Signature Schema](https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.590-202310-I/en)
* David Malcolm: Mentions further work on property bags
* Charles: Can we find a good place for links as to not only rely on minutes and emails?
* David Keaton: Maybe add to sarif.info
* Aditya: Maybe use discussions on GitHub (which are public of course)
* David Keaton: We could use discussions and issues to propose candidate links for sarif.info
* David Malcolm: Created a wiki page [Known Producers and Consumers](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/wiki/Known-Producers-and-Consumers) for collection
* All discuss
* Stefan: 
  * Providing three examples for split management of spec and awareness and educational material from other OASIS TCs:
    * CSAF: https://github.com/oasis-open/csaf-documentation
      * website: https://oasis-open.github.io/csaf-documentation/ (and csaf.io redirects there)
    * CTI (STIX/TAXI): https://github.com/oasis-open/cti-documentation/
      * website: https://oasis-open.github.io/cti-documentation/
    * OData: https://github.com/oasis-open/odata-rapid
      * website: http://rapid.rocks (and https://oasis-open.github.io/odata-rapid/ redirects there)
* ACTION on Davoid Malcolm to create a first link list for SARIF producers and consumers (from the wikipedia article draft on SARIF) 
* ACTION on Charles to start the list of links to SARIF related activities on the TC repo wiki

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* Stefan: Reports from first editorial meeting since the last TC meeting

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

 * Aditiya: On precision and severity topic two changes require further detailing which he will do together with Micahel before the next meeting

## 3.4 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

* All reviwe the pull request [futures addition #621](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/621)
  * All disuss the suggested name change
* David Malcolm: Looks like we will be bikeshedding around the name
* Aditya: What about Software Analysis Report Interchange Format
* Stefan: Proposes System Analysis Report Interchange Format (as per [discussion in issue #603](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/603))
* David Keaton: Reports of discussions he remembers when GitLab assessed if they want to integrate SARIF in their platform
* David Malcolm: Has it been decided to widen the scope?
* David Keaton: 
  * The TC already decided that SARIF v3.0 will widen and include entries from the topical list present in the future document
  * Suggests to continue the discussion on the meaning of "S" in SARIF within [issue #603](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/603)
* Charles: Introduces the second change block of the two proposed changes on the future document concerning profiling of the schema
* Stefan: 
  * Is in favor of adding that. 
  * The implementation is challenging, but widening the scope of SARIF will 
    * enlarge reagions which are of interest only to some use cases and would 
      * thus lead to meaningless content additions for others only to achieve get a document valid against the superset schema.
* ACTION on David Keaton to inject a first paragraph to the future document stating that there is no guarantee that the content will end up in a future SARIF version
* Stefan moves that the changed section "Provide Domain-specific Schema Subsets" of [futures addition #621](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/621) be merged into the future.md main revision
  * David Malcolm seconds
    * No further discussion
    * No objections
    * Unanimous consent
    * The motion carries

## 3.5 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* No news

# 4. Other Business

* None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair David)

* DECISION to meet on March 7, 2024 after the February 8 meeting
* DECISION to merge the changed section "Provide Domain-specific Schema Subsets" of [futures addition #621](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/621) be into the future.md main revision

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair David)

* Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  * ACTION on Michael to triage old issues
  * ACTION on Michael to organize label renovation
* ACTION on Davoid Malcolm to create a first link list for SARIF producers and consumers (from the wikipedia article draft on SARIF)
* ACTION on Charles to start the list of links to SARIF related activities on the TC repo wiki
* ACTION on David Keaton to inject a first paragraph to the future document stating that there is no guarantee that the content will end up in a future SARIF specification version

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  February 8, 2024 08:00-09:30 PT / 16:00-17:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
