# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of seven or more of the twelve voting members (including the officers).

| First Name | Last Name | Company                 | Role(s)                 | Present |
|:-----------|:----------|:------------------------|:------------------------|:--------|
| Adar       | Weidman   | JFrog                   | Voting Member           | No      |
| Aditya     | Sharad    | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | No      |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy  | CIRCL                   | Member                  | No      |
| Andras     | Iklody    | CIRCL                   | Member                  | No      |
| Charles    | Wilson    | Motional AD             | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Chris      | Meyer     | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| David      | Keaton    | Individual              | Chair                   | Yes     |
| David      | Malcolm   | Red Hat                 | Voting Member           | No      |
| Duncan     | Sparrell  | sFractal Consulting LLC | Member                  | No      |
| Eddy       | Nakamura  | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Jeff       | Williams  | Contrast Security       | Member                  | No      |
| Kevin      | Greene    | Mitre Corporation       | Member                  | No      |
| Lori       | Lorusso   | JFrog                   | Observer                | No      |
| Luke       | Cartey    | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                | No      |
| Mary       | Martin    | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Michael    | Fanning   | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | No      |
| Nathan     | Baird     | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Paul       | Brookes   | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Paul       | Seay      | Northrop Grumman,       | Member                  | No      |
| Ross       | Wollman   | Microsoft               | Member                  | No      |
| Stacy      | Wray      | Microsoft               | Member                  | Yes     |
| Stefan     | Hagen     | Individual              | Secretary, scribe       | Yes     |
| Stephen    | Chin      | JFrog                   | Member                  | No      |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voting Member           | Yes     |
| Tim        | Hudson    | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                  | No      |
| Vadim      | Okun      | NIST                    | Observer                | No      |

Regrets from:

* David Malcolm

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71664/](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71664/)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2024-01-11 Meeting #83](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71619/)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Charles to start the list of links to SARIF-related activities on the TC repo wiki
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on David Keaton to inject a first paragraph to the future document stating
  that there is no guarantee that the content will end up in a future SARIF specification version
  * COMPLETE (will be reviewed during this meeting)
* ACTION on David Malcolm to create a first link list for SARIF producers and consumers
  (from the wikipedia article draft on SARIF)
  * ONGOING
* David Malcolm spent some time on: <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/wiki/Known-Producers-and-Consumers>
  * See: <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/wiki/Known-Producers-and-Consumers/_history> for the details of the edits.
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael to organize label renovation
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Michael to triage old issues
  * ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* Adar Weidman
* Michael Fanning

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **16:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    March 7, 2024
    ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / **15:00** UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    April 4, 2024 (note daylight savings time in effect)
    ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

* No news

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* No news

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No editor meeting since previous meeting.

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

 * No news

## 3.4 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

* David Keaton: Walks all through the added paragraph stating that content of future.md will only be considered but 
  that the presence of an entry in the future.md file does not guarantee inclusion into future specification versions.
* All discuss
* Nathan will add content to the future.md.

## 3.5 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

* No news

# 4. Other Business

* None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair David)

* DECISION to meet after March on April, 4

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair David)

* Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  * ACTION on Charles to start the list of links to SARIF-related activities on the TC repo wiki
  * ACTION on David Malcolm to create a first link list for SARIF producers and consumers
    (from the wikipedia article draft on SARIF)
  * David Malcolm spent some time on: <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/wiki/Known-Producers-and-Consumers>
  * ACTION on Michael to organize label renovation
  * ACTION on Michael to triage old issues
* ACTION on David Keaton to add subsection headings of Purpose and Objectives resp. to the future.md as a service to 
  the reader
* ACTION on Nathan to add content to the future.md file  

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  March 7, 2024 08:00-09:30 PT / 16:00-17:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
