# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members (including the officers).

| First Name | Last Name     | Company                 | Role(s)                    | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:------------------------|:---------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft               | Member                     | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft               | Member                     | YES     |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Motional AD             | Voting Member              | NO      |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual              | Co-Chair                   | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat                 | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Duncan     | Sparrell      | sFractal Consulting LLC | Member                     | NO      |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Jeff       | Williams      | Contrast Security       | Member                     | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation       | Member                     | NO      |
| Lori       | Lorusso       | JFrog                   | Observer                   | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                   | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft               | Member                     | YES     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman        | Member                     | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual              | Secretary, taking notes â™¬ | YES     |
| Stephen    | Chin          | JFrog                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voting Member              | NO      |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                     | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                    | Observer                   | NO      |

Four of the seven voting members present - quorum reached.

Regrets:

* Thanassis Avgerinos

Information:

* Arjun Gopalakrishna has joined the TC
* Adar Weidman has become inactive
* Michael Omokoh has joined the TC

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [Agenda for July 11, 2024](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72029/)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2024-06-06 Meeting #88](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/71959/)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Charles to provide information on some threat model related standard possibly relevant to SARIF
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on David Keaton to contact Michael for provisioning of logo
  * DONE

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

* Arjun Gopalakrishna will gain voting rights at the end of next meeting when attending
* Michael Omokoh will gain voting rights at the end of next meeting when attending

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

* Aditya Sharad will gain voting rights at the end of next meeting when attending

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    August 8, 2024
    ```
  - Regrets from Thanassis
  - Same week are two security related conferencess
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    September 5, 2024
    ```
  - Regrets from Stefan

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

No news.

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* David Malcolm: 
  * Created SARIF page on [the GNU GCC wiki](https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/SARIF)
  * Fixed some bugs where his GCC functionality generated invalid SARIF

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

Nome.

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

Created 5 pull requests implementing all issues with existing proposals and 
a label indicating either that the design is approved or that the matter is purely editorial.

#### 3.3.1.1 Fixed #634 duplicated notes enumeration

PR#640 [Fixed #634 duplicated notes enumeration](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/640)

* labels: bug, editorial, impact-documentation-only, to-be-discussed
* opened: July 09, 2024 by editors
* implements:
  * IS#634 [3.24.6 roles property has two "NOTE 3"s #634](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/634)
    * labels: bug, editorial, proposal, to-be-discussed
    * opened: May 30, 2024 by David Malcolm
* suggested next steps: approve and merge

#### 3.3.1.2 Added guid property for root level log

PR#641 [Added guid property for root level log (#483)](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/641)

* labels: design-approved, to-be-discussed
* opened: July 09, 2024 by editors
* implements:
  * IS#483 [Add guid property for root level log #483](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/483)
    * labels: 2.2.0, design-approved, impact-non-breaking-change, proposal
    * opened: Jan 1, 2021 by editors
* suggested next steps: approve and merge

#### 3.3.1.3 Defined a scanned file role

PR#642 [Defined a scanned file role (#459)](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/642)

* labels: design-approved, proposal, to-be-discussed
* opened: July 09, 2024 by editors
* implements:
  * IS#459 [Define an "scannedFile" role #459](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/459)
    * labels: 2.2.0, design-approved, impact-non-breaking-change, proposal
    * opened: Apr 29, 2020 by Now Unknown User
* suggested next steps: approve and merge

#### 3.3.1.4 Added related locations property

PR#643 [Added related locations property (#491)](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/643)

* labesl: design-approved, proposal, to-be-discussed
* opened: July 09, 2024 by editors
* implements:
  * IS#491 [Suggestion: Add a relatedLocations property to notification objects #491](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/491)
    * labels: 2.2.0, design-approved, proposal
    * opened: May 13, 2021 by Henry Mercer
* changeset discussion on GitHub:
  * feedback:
    * Kalle Olavi Niemitalo (public stakeholder): 
      * For the `result` object, the `relatedLocations` property is specified with MAY rather than SHOULD:
      * >A `result` object **MAY** contain a property named `relatedLocations` whose value is an array of
        zero or more unique ([sec](#array-properties-with-unique-values)) `location` objects ([sec](#location-object))
        each of which represents a location relevant to understanding the result. 
      * If a SARIF producer is outputting a notification that does not have any related locations,
        do you want it to output an empty array `"relatedLocations": []` or omit the property altogether?
  * response[1].editor:
    * Interesting point. I will add the property to the object "of this task" as non-required but I propose to the
      TC to discuss the consistency of requesting the same property in two different places and tow distinct compliance levels.
      > Personally I expect JSON instances to omit keys in case the values are empty containers or otherwise would be `null`
      if the schema allows. A schema should serve the communication of instances and not the other way around.
      Providing noise when there is no information to convey should only be required on grounds of real use cases where that actually help(ed).
    * @Co-Chair - Propose to be discussed in the TC meeting 2024-07-11
  * response[2].editor:
    * after looking at our schema file again: When the default of an array value is the empty value and the key to that value
      is not in the required array of the "holding" object, my understanding is, that a consumer seeking information on
      that key SHALL use the empty array regardless if it was present in the consumed JSON instance.
      ... and the producer may or may not insert such noisy nothingness.
* suggested next steps: discuss consistency, eventually change compliance level to `MAY`, approve and merge

#### 3.3.1.5 Implemented expiry date utc example additions

PR#644 [Implemented expiry date utc example additions (#492)](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/644)

* labels: design-approved, proposal, to-be-discussed
* opened: July 09, 2024 by editors
* implements:
  * IS#492 [Suggestion: add an expiryDateUtc property to suppression instances #492](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/492)
    * labels: 2.2.0, design-approved, proposal
    * opened: Jun 28, 2021 by editors
* suggested next steps: approve and merge

### 3.3.2 Approval of changes

* PR#640 (Fixed #634 duplicated notes enumeration):
  * Stefan moves to approve and merge PR#640, David Malcolm seconds.
    * No discussion, no objections, unanimous consent - the motion carries
* PR#641 (Added guid property for root level log):
  * David Malcolm: Does not currently have his tool generate any GUID
  * Aditya: Asked on the use case of the GUID in the root object
  * Nathan: Asks why in addition to the other GUIDs this one is
  * David Malcolm: GCC may have currently problems with GUIDs and reproducible builds
  * Stefan moves to approve and merge PR#641, Nathan seconds
    * No further discussion, no objections, unanimous consent - the motion carries
* PR#642 (Defined a scanned file role):
  * David Malcolm: Why list messages that were not ending up as source of alerts
  * Aditya: Cases when alerts are originating in a header file
  * Stefan: Order of arguments or names differ between headers and implementation files
  * Aditya: Customers want to know which files were scanned  
  * Stefan moves to approve and merge PR#642, David Malcolm seconds
    * No further discussion, no objections, unanimous consent - the motion carries
* PR#643 (Added related locations property):
  * Stefan suggests discussion of PR#643 under 3.3.3 Additional discussion
* PR#644 (Implemented expiry date utc example additions):
  * Stefan moves to approve and merge PR#644, David Malcolm seconds
    * No further discussion, no objections, unanimous consent - the motion carries

### 3.3.3 Additional discussion

* PR#643 (Added related locations property):
  * Aditya: prefers MAY and in both sites
  * David Malcolm: what if his generator (gcc) crashes while going out
  * Nathan: Sees notifications are related to the tool and kind of open-ended
  * Aditya: Closed source tools may not want to disclose relatedLocations or
    the tool has notifications without any relatedLocation at all
  * Stefan moves to approve and merge PR#643, Nathan seconds
    * No further discussion, no objections, unanimous consent - the motion carries

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

No discussion

## 3.7 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

No discussion

# 4. Other Business

No other business

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet September 5th as next meeting after August

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  * ACTION on Charles to provide information on some threat model related standard possibly relevant to SARIF
* ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and
  to provide an implementation per pull request
  * STARTED (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)
* ACTION on Stefan to change the prose as discussed in #643 on `relatedLocation` to
  replace `SHOULD` with MAY for the `notification` object before merging the PR#643
  * DONE (cf. PR#643)
* ACTION on Stefan to provide editor revision containing the merged 5 PRs

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  August 8, 2024 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
