# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members (including the officers).

| First Name | Last Name     | Company                 | Role(s)                    | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:------------------------|:---------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft               | Member                     | ???     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL                   | Member                     | ??      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL                   | Member                     | ??      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft               | Member                     | ???     |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Motional AD             | Voting Member              | ??      |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual              | Co-Chair                   | ???     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat                 | Voting Member              | ???     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation       | Member                     | ??      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                   | ??      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft               | Member                     | ???     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | ???     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman        | Member                     | ??      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual              | Secretary, taking notes ♬ | ???     |
| Stephen    | Chin          | JFrog                   | Member                     | ??      |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voting Member              | ??      |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                     | ??      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                    | Observer                   | ??      |

... of the seven voting members present - quorum ... reached.

Regrets:

* Thanassis

Information:

* ...

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [Agenda for August 8, 2024](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72081/)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2024-07-11 Meeting #89](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72052/)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Charles to provide information on some threat model related standard possibly relevant to SARIF
  * ...
* ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and
  to provide an implementation per pull request
  * ONGOING (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)
* ACTION on Stefan to change the prose as discussed in #643 on `relatedLocation` to
  replace `SHOULD` with MAY for the `notification` object before merging the PR#643
  * DONE (cf. PR#643)
* ACTION on Stefan to provide editor revision containing the merged 5 PRs
  * DONE (cf. PR#652)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Arjun Gopalakrishna will gain voting rights at the end of this meeting when attending
* Michael Omokoh will gain voting rights at the end of this meeting when attending

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

* Aditya Sharad will gain voting rights at the end of this meeting when attending

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    September 5, 2024
    ```
  - Regrets from Stefan
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    October 10, 2024
    ```
  - Regrets from ...

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

...

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* ...

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

...

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

Created 1 pull request to provide the editor revision 2024-08-08 containing the merged 5 PRs from previous TC meeting 2024-07-11.

From the description of the PR [652](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/652):

>Until this PR is merged, the user facing delivery items are inspectable directly in the source branch. Example markdown single file: https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/editor-revision-2024-08-08/sarif-2.2/prose/share/sarif-v2.2-draft.md#informative-revision-history.
>
>The self-contained single-file HTML delivery item can be downloaded per  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/editor-revision-2024-08-08/sarif-2.2/prose/share/sarif-v2.2-draft.html and then opened locally in the browser to see the rendering.
>
>--- 
>The main goal of this change set is to bundle the prior 5 implemented proposals into a single editor revision.
>
>The approved and merged proposals included are:
>
>- Added guid property for root level log (#483) (#641)
>  - Added guid property for root level log (#483)
>  - Added the guid member to the root level object in the schema
>    (thanks to Kalle Olavi Niemitalo for reminding)
>  - Softened the compliance level to SHOULD as a compromise
>    to mitigate the impact on slow adapters.
>- Added related locations property (#491) (#643)
>- Implemented expiry date utc example additions (#492) (#644)
>- Defined a scanned file role (#459) (#642)
>- Fixed #634 duplicated notes enumeration (#640)
>
>Another important content addition is the addition of an adapted (v2.1.0 &rightarrow; v2.2) schema for external file properties, which was missing in the v2.2 tree.
>
>Next, the removal of the intermediate v2.1.0-errata-01 SARIF schema from the v2.2 tree.
>
>Final editorial goals were to upgrade frontmatter, acknowledgement and change log sections to:
>
>- describe the targeted CSD01 of v2.2 and not the former v2.1.0 errata 01
>- provide accurate coordinates (names, email addresses, and affiliations to match the roster)
>- name active editors
>- accurately propose acknowledgments for
>  - the real contributions to the current v2.2 work products
>  - the support provided in transforming from OfficeXML to markdown
>  - the support provided for the first two editor revisions
>  - the contributions to the previous v2.1.0 version we started from
>- provide a meaningful change log only listing editor revisions of v2.2 with links to implemented proposals

In addition, the editors worked on freshly reported issues and communicated with the members of the general public that provided comments. 

Unfortunately no further proposal was ready to implement directly.

One of the editors had availability problems for three weeks, which further reduced the achievable changes.

### 3.3.2 Approval of changes

* PR#652 (Editor revision 2024-08-08):
  * ... moves to approve and merge PR#652, ... seconds.
    * ... discussion, ... objections, ... consent - the motion ...

### 3.3.3 Additional discussion

* ...

## 3.4 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

...

## 3.5 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

...

# 4. Other Business

...

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to ... meet October 10th as next meeting after September
* DECISION to ...

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  * ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and to provide an implementation per pull request
    (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)
  * ACTION on ...
* ACTION on ...

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  September 5, 2024 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was ...
