# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members (including the officers).

| First Name | Last Name     | Company                 | Role(s)                    | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:------------------------|:---------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft               | Member                     | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Motional AD             | Voting Member              | NO      |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual              | Co-Chair                   | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat                 | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation       | Member                     | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                   | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft               | Member                     | YES     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman        | Member                     | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual              | Secretary, taking notes â™¬ | YES     |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                     | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                    | Observer                   | NO      |

Five of the seven voting members present - quorum was reached.

Regrets:

* Charles

Information:

* Removed inactive members from the participants table

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [Agenda for August 8, 2024](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72081/)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2024-07-11 Meeting #89](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72052/)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Charles to provide information on some threat model related standard possibly relevant to SARIF
  * ONGOING planned for next meeting
* ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and
  to provide an implementation per pull request
  * ONGOING (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)
* ACTION on Stefan to change the prose as discussed in #643 on `relatedLocation` to
  replace `SHOULD` with MAY for the `notification` object before merging the PR#643
  * DONE (cf. PR#643)
* ACTION on Stefan to provide editor revision containing the merged 5 PRs
  * DONE (cf. PR#652)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Michael Omokoh will gain voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

* Charles Wilson will lose voting rights

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

* Aditya Sharad will gain voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    September 5, 2024
    ```
  - Regrets from Stefan
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    October 10, 2024
    ```
  - No regrets

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

No news

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* David Malcolm:
  * reports on many changes for his GCC SARIF implementation 
  * indicates his concerns on nested diagnostics for C++ based on the issue
    [Clarify use (or extend design) of SARIF to express hierarchical diagnostics. #572](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572)
    * shows a diagnostic tree from a run of his GCC implementation
      * for one location info can lead to directed graph
      * another perspective lends to targeting a linear list
      * he would like to have a locationRelation property for supporting implementations
    * Aditya: asks if there are already examples in the spec around hierarchical relationships
    * David Malcolm: States we have in taxonomies something similar
    * Aditya: often ordering can be enforced, but no natural order is present
    * David Malcolm: points the TC members to further details presented in the issue
    * David Malcolm: thinks the discussion helped him a lot to continue with his implementation
    * Nathan: how are the related locations referenced? Is that only in the message today?
    * Nathan: maybe the stacks property could also be used for hierarchical relationships
    * Nathan: suggests to not put too much effort in relatedLocations to assist for hierarchical relationships,
              but instead place that rendering assistance information in some other SARIF field
    * Aditya: likes the idea of relatedLocations just being a simple list of references

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

No news

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

Created 1 pull request to provide the editor revision 2024-08-08 containing the merged 5 PRs from previous TC meeting 2024-07-11.

From the description of the PR [652](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/652):

>Until this PR is merged, the user facing delivery items are inspectable directly in the source branch. Example markdown single file: https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/editor-revision-2024-08-08/sarif-2.2/prose/share/sarif-v2.2-draft.md#informative-revision-history.
>
>The self-contained single-file HTML delivery item can be downloaded per  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/editor-revision-2024-08-08/sarif-2.2/prose/share/sarif-v2.2-draft.html and then opened locally in the browser to see the rendering.
>
>--- 
>The main goal of this change set is to bundle the prior 5 implemented proposals into a single editor revision.
>
>The approved and merged proposals included are:
>
>- Added guid property for root level log (#483) (#641)
>  - Added guid property for root level log (#483)
>  - Added the guid member to the root level object in the schema
>    (thanks to Kalle Olavi Niemitalo for reminding)
>  - Softened the compliance level to SHOULD as a compromise
>    to mitigate the impact on slow adapters.
>- Added related locations property (#491) (#643)
>- Implemented expiry date utc example additions (#492) (#644)
>- Defined a scanned file role (#459) (#642)
>- Fixed #634 duplicated notes enumeration (#640)
>
>Another important content addition is the addition of an adapted (v2.1.0 &rightarrow; v2.2) schema for external file properties, which was missing in the v2.2 tree.
>
>Next, the removal of the intermediate v2.1.0-errata-01 SARIF schema from the v2.2 tree.
>
>Final editorial goals were to upgrade frontmatter, acknowledgement and change log sections to:
>
>- describe the targeted CSD01 of v2.2 and not the former v2.1.0 errata 01
>- provide accurate coordinates (names, email addresses, and affiliations to match the roster)
>- name active editors
>- accurately propose acknowledgments for
>  - the real contributions to the current v2.2 work products
>  - the support provided in transforming from OfficeXML to markdown
>  - the support provided for the first two editor revisions
>  - the contributions to the previous v2.1.0 version we started from
>- provide a meaningful change log only listing editor revisions of v2.2 with links to implemented proposals

In addition, the editors worked on freshly reported issues and communicated with the members of the general public that provided comments. 

Unfortunately no further proposal was ready to implement directly.

One of the editors had availability problems for three weeks, which further reduced the achievable changes.

### 3.3.2 Approval of changes

* PR#652 (Editor revision 2024-08-08):
  * David Malcolm
  * David Malcolm moves to approve and merge PR#652, Nathan seconds.
    * Thanassis: Is major.minor sufficient or is patch needed for the version
    * Stefan: No need, rarely seen a real patch on a specification within the OASIS process
    * No further discussion, no objections, unanimous consent - the motion carries

### 3.3.3 Additional discussion

* David Malcolm: What is the suggested way for implementers to indicate compliance with an upcoming versions of the standard
* Stefan and Aditya: You could use the tag we add in the repo on the editor revision
* David Keaton: You might use 2.x, 2.pre-2, or pre-2.2, or 2.2-prerelease
* Stefan: normally trailing indicators are least important and pre-2.2 might break version handling of users
          expecting somehow semantic versioning
* Michael: Did we consider date based versioning?
* David Malcolm: or 2.2-prerelease-2024-08-08 
* All discuss

## 3.4 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

No news

## 3.5 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Covered in int the SG15 discussion under ecosystem

# 4. Other Business

None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet October 10th as next meeting after September
* DECISION to merge the editorial revision PR#652

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  * ACTION on Charles to provide information on some threat model related standard possibly relevant to SARIF
    * planned for next meeting
  * ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and to provide an implementation per pull request
    (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  September 5, 2024 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
