# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members (including the officers minus leave of absentees).

| First Name | Last Name     | Company                 | Role(s)                    | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:------------------------|:---------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | ???     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL                   | Member                     | ??      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL                   | Member                     | ??      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Motional AD             | Member                     | ??      |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual              | Co-Chair                   | ???     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat                 | Voting Member              | ???     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation       | Member                     | ??      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                   | ??      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | ???     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | ???     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman        | Member                     | ??      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft               | Member                     | ??      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual              | Secretary                  | ??      |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voting Member              | ???     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                     | ??      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                    | Observer                   | ??      |

... of the seven voting members present - quorum was ... reached.

Present:
* David Keaton
* David Malcolm
* Aditya Sharad
* Michael Omokoh
* Nathan Baird
* Arjun Gopalakrishna
* Thanassis Avgerinos

Regrets:

* ...

Information:

* ...

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [Agenda for September 5, 2024](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72177/)

The agenda was approved by David Malcolm and seconded by Aditya Sharad. No objections / discussion.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2024-08-08 Meeting #90](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72089/)

The minutes were approved by Thanassis Avgerinos and seconded by David Malcolm. No objections / discussion.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on Charles to provide information on some threat model related standard possibly relevant to SARIF
  * ONGOING
  * ...
* ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and
  to provide an implementation per pull request
  * ONGOING (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

No changes at this meeting.

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

* Stefan Hagen is on leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    October 10, 2024
    ```
  - Regrets ...
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    November 14, 2024 (note this is after daylight savings time ends)
    ```
  - Regrets ...

Members agreed to make November 14, 2024 as the meeting after that.

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

1. SARIF activies on gcc (David Malcolm). Tracking under [SARIF](https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/SARIF). Posted a patch for kit diagnostics - moving gcc's diagnostic code into a library so that other projects can benefit from SARIF support. Adding support elsewhere becomes as simple as a single line. Emitting SARIF gcc-compatible diagnostics is equally simple. Hoping support may be released within the next year. GCC diagnoristics are supposed to have embedded URLs in them - filed three bugs in the sarif-spec tracker on issues that were encountered. Attempting to add SARIF support to gnu assembler / linker. Valgrind may consider adding support. Discussion on dynamic tools relying on jsonl (newline delimited json) and streaming to allow partial emission of results.

2. Question on CVE findings from SCA tools (Thanassis Avgerinos). Lack of consistency among SARIF reports produced by different tools is creating aggregation difficulties. The team sees no immediate solution to this.

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* ...

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

...

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

The merged editor revision from 2024-08-08 has been tagged as:

* [sarif-v2.2-wd20240808-dev](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/tree/sarif-v2.2-wd20240808-dev)
* [2.2-prerelease-2024-08-08](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/tree/2.2-prerelease-2024-08-08)

The latter tag shall support implementers and their users to best blend into semantic version schemes in use and relate implementations to the claimed specification (drafts).
Cf. [minutes of TC meeting 2024-08-08](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/240808_SARIF_TC_90.md#333-additional-discussion)

One or more reported issues / questions have been tagged for discussion within the TC:

* [Clarify use (or extend design) of SARIF to express hierarchical diagnostics. #572](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572) reported by Michael Fanning in 2023
  * discussion started already during [TC meeting 2024-08-08](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/240808_SARIF_TC_90.md#312-other-ecosystem-items)
* [RFE: support for capturing chains of macro expansions? #650](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/650https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/650) reported by David Malcolm
* [Is any escaping of URIs within "3.11.6 Messages with embedded links" needed? #657](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657) reported by David Malcolm

One of the editors is on leave of absence.

### 3.3.2 Approval of changes

* ...

### 3.3.3 Additional discussion

* Extended discussion on [expressing hierarchical diagnostics](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572) between David Malcolm, Nathan Baird and Aditya Sharad on whether using graph and graph traveral is appropriate to represent them. Not possible to use arbitrary markup in some cases.

* Discussion on [macro expansions](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/650) - adding a new location relationship seemed to be useful. Unclear if the graph approach resolves here. Decided to postpone discussion to next meeting.

* Discussion on embedded links [1](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/656) [2](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657) [3](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/658). Agreed on typo in issue !656 and get it deployed in 2.2.0. Will probably close !657. Discussion on !658 may be part of 2.2.0.

* Discussion on [sourceLanguage property](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/654) for SARIF itself. Decided to change to "sarif" for 2.2.0.


## 3.4 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

No news

## 3.5 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

David Malcolm reporting on the SGC (C++ ISO) committee. Suggested using SARIF in the study group for C++ tooling and got positive feedback. Lots of more feedback to follow.


# 4. Other Business

...

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet November 14th as next meeting after October.
* DECISION to discuss pending `2.2.0` items listed above in the October meeting.

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  * ACTION on David Malcolm to discover all the unknowns on [expressing hierarchical diagnostics](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572) and present to the committee.
  * ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and to provide an implementation per pull request
    (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  October 10, 2024 08:00-09:30 PT / 15:00-16:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was approved by David Malcolm and seconded by Michael Omokoh.
