# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of five or more of the eight voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company                 | Role(s)                    | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:------------------------|:---------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft               | Member                     | YES     |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Motional AD             | Member                     | NO      |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual              | Co-Chair                   | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat                 | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation       | Member                     | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                   | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | NO      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman        | Member                     | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual              | Secretary, taking notes â™¬ | YES     |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                     | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                    | Observer                   | NO      |

Six of the eight voting members present - quorum was reached.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [Agenda for October 10, 2024](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72270/)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2024-09-05 Meeting #91](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72176/)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on David Malcolm to discover all the unknowns on [expressing hierarchical diagnostics](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572) and present to the committee.
  * DONE per comment on issue #572 at <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572#issuecomment-2402493949>
* ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and
  to provide an implementation per pull request
  * ONGOING (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

* Arjun Gopalakrishna

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    November 14, 2024 (note this is after daylight savings time ends)
    ```
 - Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    December 12, 2024
    ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

No news.

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* David Malcolm landed initial draft SARIF v2.2.0 support in GCC

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month
* No other subgroup discussion to report

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

One or more reported issues / questions have been tagged for discussion within the TC:

* ["Progressive" or "dynamic" SARIF #661](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/661) reported by David Malcolm
* ["Semantic" markup in SARIF messages #662](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/662) reported by David Malcolm
  * Received already community feedback at <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/662#issuecomment-2402491475>

Only one editor currently active and waiting for approved proposals to edit into the specification draft.

### 3.3.2 Approval of changes

N/A

### 3.3.3 Additional discussion

* Continued discussion on [expressing hierarchical diagnostics](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572)
  * David Malcolm: If the three statements in
    <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572#issuecomment-2402493949> are correct ...

* ["Progressive" or "dynamic" SARIF #661](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/661) reported by David Malcolm
  * Aditya: Adding new results also bring in other changes to fields else where
  * David Malcolm: Is there an analog in JSON to the DOM observewrs from XML/HTML?
  * Stefan: In frontend aplication frameworks JSON/JS Types are used for state representation and propagation, but are on top of JSON
  * Aditya: JSON Patch <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6902/>
  * Aditya: JSON Merge Patch <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7396/>
  * Stefan: Prefers additive append like updates (like the classic compiler line oriented diagnostics)
  * Stefan: Rationale for no deep mutations inside an already parsed SARIF object is that this 
    "smells" like plenty of attack vectors with difficult mitigations
  * All discuss / remember / motivate why there is only a data (serialization) model and not an information model for SARIF
  * Thanassis: Entity Relationship Diagram for SARIF?
  * Thanassis: Are there any tools that already do these streaming updates?
  * No one knows currently

* Continued discussion on [macro expansions](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/650)
  * David Malcolm plans an example implementation to be ready by next meeting

* Continued discussion on [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530)
  * Stefan: Will create an editor text for that proposal

* Continued discussion on [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540)  
  * Was linked to #643 which in turn had a post-merge comment leading to #649
  * Stefan: Try to propose text in context for [Consider r-using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649)

* Continued discussion on [Consider adding reportingDescriptor.uiLabel property #567](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/567)
  * Aditya: Wonders who would need that after now short description is available - will add a comment to the issue

* Continued discussion [Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)
  * Close to provide text but awaiting SBOM research

* Continued discussion on [Support for diagrams in SARIF? #588](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/588)
  * David Malcolm: WIll add comment to the issue

* Continued discussion on [No method is given for escaping link syntax in plain-text messages #597](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/597)
  * Looks similar to [Is any escaping of URIs within "3.11.6 Messages with embedded links" needed? #657](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657)
    * David Malcolm: Comments on that issue <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657#issuecomment-2405510302>
    * Thanassis: Suggests the link to be URL encoded
    * David Malcolm: "is or "MAY be" encoded?
    * Thanassis: Browsers will do "MAY" (unfortunately)
    * David Keaton: Suggest to add an informative text suggesting to URL encode
    * Stefan: Will try to add that informative statement to the issue and the text

* Continued discussion on 
  [Proposal: change underlying name of SARIF from Static ... to Systematic ... #603](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/603)
  Conclusion: "System" has been selected for 3.0, so remove the discussion needed tag and add the 3.0 tag

* Continued diuscussion on [SARIF artifact signing #607](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/607) 
  * Aditya: Shares Stefan's comment
  * Stefan: mention canonicalization schemes for JSON as eg. JSON Canonicalization Scheme (JCS) <https://github.com/cyberphone/json-canonicalization>
    or <https://git.sr.ht/~sthagen/tallipoika> and based on that the ITU Recommendation ITU-T X.590 "JSON signature scheme (JSS)"
    <https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.590-202310-I/en> with the summary:
    >Recommendation ITU-T X.590 defines a method called JSON signature scheme (JSS) which enables
    >JavaScript object notation (JSON) objects to be signed and/or countersigned while leaving the
    >original JSON objects themselves in JSON format. This process enables a consistent data format that
    >simplifies the use, documentation, debugging, and logging of the JSON data while still allowing it to
    >be digitally signed. Further, with this method, signed JSON objects also can be used and processed
    >just like standard JSON objects which simplifies their use for application developers and systems.
  * Aditya: As much as he likes, he thinks that will be difficult to implement
  * Thanassis: Suggests to ask suppliers to include in their signed data also the configuration
  * Aditya: When we can agree on a mechanism we might add to the specification
  * David Keaton: Suggests to state that this is outside of the scope of the standard as others deal with this
  * Aditya and Stefan see this as 3.0

* Continued discussion on [Sourcemaps or #line directives #618](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/618)
  * Aditya: Minified files scanned yield line information that needs a mapping to be applicable to source code inspection 
  * Stefan: The tool providers should relate locations (like a browser with debug bundles, or a compiler/linker
    providing symbol mappings to release code)
  * David Malcolm: Thinks #line directives are a separate topic than source maps
  * David Malcolm: relatedLocation could be used in the case of #line directives; he might write a proposal

## 3.4 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Skipped

## 3.5 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Skipped

# 4. Other Business

None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet on December 12 next after the November meeting

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  * ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and to provide an implementation per pull request
    (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)
* ACTION on David Malcolm to update issue #588 (support of diagrams in SARIF)
* ACTION on David Malcolm to comment on #588 sketching a proposal for #line directives
* ACTION on Stefan to research the history and status of #564
  "Question: How to represent results from deep in revision control history?"
* ACTION on Stefan to create an editor text for the proposal in 
  [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530)
* ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for 
  [Consider r-using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649)
* ACTION on Stefan to try to add that informative statement to the issue and the text per  
  [Is any escaping of URIs within "3.11.6 Messages with embedded links" needed? #657](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657)
* ACTION on Thanassis to provide info on justificationTypes from SBOM initiatives (research)

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  November 14, 2024 (note this is after daylight savings time ends)
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
