# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of five or more of the nine voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company                 | Role(s)                    | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:------------------------|:---------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL                   | Member                     | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc.     | Member                     | NO      |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual              | Co-Chair                   | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat                 | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation       | Member                     | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                   | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft               | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman        | Member                     | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft               | Member                     | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual              | Secretary, taking notes â™¬ | YES     |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voting Member              | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                     | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                    | Observer                   | NO      |

Seven of the nine voting members present - quorum was reached.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

* [Agenda for November 14, 2024](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72357/)

The agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

* [Minutes of 2024-10-10 Meeting #92](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72271/)

The minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

* ACTION on David Malcolm to comment on #588 sketching a proposal for #line directives
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on David Malcolm to update issue #588 (support of diagrams in SARIF)
  * ONGOING
* ACTION on Stefan to provide prose explaining the use of `guid`s in another new issue and to provide an implementation per pull request
  (cf. [Provide prose explaining the use of guids across all occurrences #648](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/648)
  * ONGOING - still reading through all 92 locations of GUIDs in SARIF v2.1 to best derive claims associated with a top-level GUID
* ACTION on Stefan to research the history and status of 
  [Question: How to represent results from deep in revision control history? #564](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/564)
  "Question: How to represent results from deep in revision control history?"
  * The TC shall discuss the matter as unfortunately the issue has never been documented
    as being discussed within the TC (Stefan assessed all minutes documents from
    the proposed first meeting to discuss the matter onwards)
  * DONE
* ACTION on Stefan to create an editor text for the proposal in 
  [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530)
  * ONGOING - in queue
* ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for 
  [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649)
  * ONGOING - in queue
* ACTION on Stefan to try to add that informative statement to the issue and the text per  
  [Is any escaping of URIs within "3.11.6 Messages with embedded links" needed? #657](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657)
  * TL;DR; No - provided clarification (on [RFC choice](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657#issuecomment-2475582112)) and
    [proposal answering the question](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657#issuecomment-2475620829) both in the ticket
  * DONE
* ACTION on Thanassis to provide info on justificationTypes from SBOM initiatives (research)
  * ONGOING - Suggests to present next meeting

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    December 12, 2024
    ```
    regrets: Stefan
 - Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
    ```
    January 9, 2025
    ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

None

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

* David Malcolm: SARIF support in GCC now supports text and SARIF as report formats
  in parallel (before the selection was mutual exclusive) <https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/SARIF>

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month
* No other subgroup discussions

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

Working on actions to produce proposals.

### 3.3.2 Approval of changes

None

### 3.3.3 Additional discussion

* [Is any escaping of URIs within "3.11.6 Messages with embedded links" needed? #657](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657)
  * All discuss
  * David Malcolm: GCC SARIF always produces messages in plain text format
  * Aditya: Verified that the GitHub parser and browsers can deal with parentheses but
    is in favor of adding some informative text suggesting to consider URL percent encoding
    such characters
  * Thanassis: confirms that unbalanced parentheses break the links  
* [Question: How to represent results from deep in revision control history? #564](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/564)
  * Stefan: Thinks this is a valid use case 
  * Aditya: Informs about the GitHub API to address blobs 
    * https://docs.github.com/en/rest/git/blobs?apiVersion=2022-11-28  
  * Nathan: Suggests that maybe open ended version strings might help
* [UTF8 bytes count support as columnKind? #466](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/466)
  * All discuss
  * Proposal is to add other columnKinds (cf. ticket <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/466#issuecomment-1672200923>)
  * David Malcolm to propose a wording for the proposal (using bytes and maybe a unicode column number)
* [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530)
  * All: remove the to be discussed as the design is already approved
* [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540) 
  * All discuss
* [Consider adding reportingDescriptor.uiLabel property #567](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/567)
  * Aditya: Proposed to use a different element instead as noted in his [comment](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/567#issuecomment-2405513811) suggesting to close the issue 
* [Clarify use (or extend design) of SARIF to express hierarchical diagnostics. #572](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/572)
  * All discuss
  * David Malcolm assumes there will still be some iterations before something can be proposed
  * David Keaton explains two approaches of standardization, one where the standard goes first, then implementations follow
    or alternatively the implementers go first (maybe each one differently) and then standardization tries to harmonize;
    and he thinks this issues looks like the second strategy might match
  * Stefan mentions JSON Path RFC as a very good and useful example for the second approach  
  * Nathan: This issue looks like a graph approach and although he has no use for that currently it may be useful
  * All look forward to see examples from David Malcolms GCC extension
  * David Malcolm shares (experimental quality):
    * [Screenshot of text version of output](https://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/attachment.cgi?id=59580)
    * [and a mockup](https://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/attachment.cgi?id=59598)
    * [and a SARIF example](https://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/attachment.cgi?id=58852)
  * [Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)
    * All discuss if the enumerations would be mutual exclusive and that the change would be non-breaking
    * Stefan: Will provide a text
    * Aditya: Here are the 
      [dismissal types GitHub currently provides in the UI](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/code-scanning/managing-code-scanning-alerts/resolving-code-scanning-alerts#dismissing-alerts) essentially 3 choices: Won't fix, FP, used in tests.

## 3.4 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Skipped

## 3.5 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Skipped

# 4. Other Business

None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

* DECISION to meet on January, 9 in 2025 as next meeting after the December 2024 meeting

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

* Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  * ACTION on David Malcolm to comment on #588 sketching a proposal for #line directives
  * ACTION on David Malcolm to update issue #588 (support of diagrams in SARIF)
  * ACTION on Stefan to create an editor text for the proposal in 
    [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530)
  * ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for 
    [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649)
  * ACTION on Thanassis to provide info on justificationTypes from SBOM initiatives (research)
* ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs
* ACTION on David to propose additional text on 3.14.27 columnKind property for issue [UTF8 bytes count support as columnKind? #466](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/466)
* ACTION on David to propose a text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540) 
* ACTION on Stefan to provide a text for [Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  December 12, 2024
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting was adjourned.
