# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the eight voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company                 | Role(s)                 | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:------------------------|:------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL                   | Member                  | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL                   | Member                  | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc.     | Member                  | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual              | Co-Chair                | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat                 | Voting Member           | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation       | Member                  | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft               | Co-Chair                | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | YES     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman        | Member                  | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual              | Secretary, taking notes | YES     |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voter (leave of absence)| NO      |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                  | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                    | Observer                | NO      |

Notices:

- Thanassis requested a leave of absence until 

Five of the eight voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.


## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

- [Agenda for February 6, 2025](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72448/)

Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

- [Minutes of 2025-01-09 Meeting #95](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72444/) (informal meeting due to missed quorum)
  - Minutes of informal 2025-01-09 Meeting #95 were approved 
- [Minutes of 2024-12-12 Meeting #94](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72443/)
  - Minutes of 2024-12-12 Meeting #94 were approved

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs
  - sss
- ACTION on David Malcolm to comment on #618 sketching a proposal for #line directives
  - DONE
- ACTION on David Malcolm to update issue #588 (support of diagrams in SARIF)
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose additional text on 3.14.27 columnKind property for issue [UTF8 bytes count support as columnKind? #466](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/466)
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540)
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Stefan to create an editor text for the proposal in [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530)
  - DONE 
- ACTION on Stefan to provide text for [Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)
  - DONE
- ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649)
  - ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

- Charles Wilson

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

- Arjun Gopalakrishna

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  March 6, 2025
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  April 10, 2025 (after Daylight Savings Time begins)
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Announce

> OASIS 2-year chair reappointment process

- David Keaton: 
  - Will send an email to the TC list asking for candidates for Chair / Co-chair positions.
  - Shows everyone the suggested text per TC process documentation.

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

- Charles: Suggests that IETF [dCBOR - A Deterministic CBOR Application Profile](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcnally-deterministic-cbor/)
  might support use cases for SARIF files with heterogenously scoped parts
  and still being able to maintain attestation.
- All discuss.
- Nathan:
  - There would definitely be use for something like this (at least within Microsoft's use case).
  - Within Microsoft, many processors/producers have custom parameterization to produce or not produce redacted data in various sections.
- Stefan: Thinks this is interesting for complete subtrees but not so much for insulating SARIF findings from the triggering source code.
- David Malcolm: Do people actually use CBOR instead of JSON for SARIF like uses?

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- Davied Malcolm: COntinued to work on gcc SARIF plugin but provided no new patches yet.

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
* No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

- Proposal from [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530)
  implemented in pull request [Editor Proposal for 530 Thread Flow Location Additions #671](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/671).
- Text for [Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)
  provided in pull request [Editor Proposal for 574 adding a justification enumeration #672](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/672).
- Fix for issue [JSON example in logicalLocation.kind property (para 3.33.7) is invalid #670](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/670)
  provided in pull request [Editorial Proposal to Fix JSON Example for logicalLocation/kind #673](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/673).

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

- Pull request [Editor Proposal for 530 Thread Flow Location Additions #671](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/671)
  - David Malcolm moves to approve and merge that minimal proposal. 
    - Stefan seconds. 
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent. 
        - The motion carries.
- Pull request [Editorial Proposal to Fix JSON Example for logicalLocation/kind #673](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/673).
  - Stefan moves to approve and merge that fix. 
    - David Malcolm seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

- Discussion on proposal from [Suggestions for more threadFlowLocation "kinds" property values #530](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/530)
  implemented in pull request [Editor Proposal for 530 Thread Flow Location Additions #671](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/671)
  - Nathan: 'falsepositive' is definitely another option, perhaps unique from my presumption of it trying to cover 'nondeterminism'
      (post-work via GitHub and email)
  - Charles: Why is kinds plural?
  - Stefan: It is a container (array) and we cannot rename fields in the v2.2 changes
    (as these break existing code expecting values under the old names).
- Discussion on Text for [Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)
  provided in pull request [Editor Proposal for 574 adding a justification enumeration #672](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/672).
  - Charles: Why not rename existing justrification field in justificationMessage or similar to
    better fit side by side with the new justificationType?
  - Stefan: We cannot rename fields in the v2.2 changes but can be a v3.0 change
    (as these break existing code expecting values under the old names).
  - Approval deferred when content from ticket (explanations) is added too.
- Discussion on fix for issue [JSON example in logicalLocation.kind property (para 3.33.7) is invalid #670](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/670)
  provided in pull request [Editorial Proposal to Fix JSON Example for logicalLocation/kind #673](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/673).
- Discussion on the question / bug report from David Malcolm in 
  issue [Mismatching "fullyQualifiedName" in XML example in logicalLocation.kind property (ยง3.33.7) #669](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/669).
  - David Malcolm: States his interpretation of the SARIF v2.1.0 spec related to the XML example.
  - Charles: We should have all examples verified.
  - Stefan:
    - Did this already on JSON level for all SARIF v2.1.0 examples when translating from the Word document to markdown.
    - Comparing examples between v2.1.0 and v2.2 candidate showed many required fixes.
    - Extracted these prior existing examples into JSON files.
    - Sees this task as important for adoption of the standard, but we can provide a vetted example suite per
      the TC repository while and after progression of the specification.
  - David Malcolm:
    - Started a collection of such examples for (positive and negative) tests to support his development of the gcc SARIF plugin
      available at <https://gcc.gnu.org/git/?p=gcc.git;a=tree;f=gcc/testsuite/sarif-replay.dg;hb=HEAD>.

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Skipped.

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Skipped.

# 4. Other Business

Skipped.

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Stefan)

- DECISION to have the next two meetings on March, 6 and April, 10.

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to update issue #588 (support of diagrams in SARIF).
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose additional text on 3.14.27 columnKind property for issue [UTF8 bytes count support as columnKind? #466](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/466).
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649).
- ACTION on Nathan to create an issue on handling sensitive data in SARIF.
- ACTION on Stefan to add the explanatory text from issue ["Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object." #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574).
  to the proposal in the pull request [Editor Proposal for 574 adding a justification enumeration #672](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/672).
- ACTION on David Malcolm to fix [Mismatching "fullyQualifiedName" in XML example in logicalLocation.kind property (ยง3.33.7) #669](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/669).

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  March 6, 2025 (to be approved at today's meeting) / 08:00-09:30 PT / 16:00-17:30 UTC
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
