# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company                 | Role(s)                 | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:------------------------|:------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL                   | Member                  | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL                   | Member                  | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc.     | Voting Member           | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual              | Co-Chair                | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat                 | Voting Member           | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation       | Member                  | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | YES     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft               | Voting Member           | YES     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman        | Member                  | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft               | Member                  | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual              | Co-Chair, taking notes  | YES     |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc        | Voter (leave of absence)| NO      |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.      | Member                  | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                    | Observer                | NO      |


Seven of the seven voting members present - quorum was ... reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.


## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

- [Agenda for March 6, 2025](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72603/)

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

- [Minutes of 2025-02-06 Meeting #96](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72532/)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on David Malcolm to update issue #588 (support of diagrams in SARIF).
  - DONE
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose additional text on 3.14.27 columnKind property for issue [UTF8 bytes count support as columnKind? #466](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/466).
  - DONE
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on David Malcolm to fix [Mismatching "fullyQualifiedName" in XML example in logicalLocation.kind property (ยง3.33.7) #669](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/669).
  - DONE per pull request [Fix typo in XML example of logical locations (#669) #675](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/675)
- ACTION on Nathan to create an issue on handling sensitive data in SARIF.
  - DONE per [SARIF should have clearer guidance for sensitive data handling best practices #678](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/678)
- ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649).
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Stefan to add the explanatory text from issue ["Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object." #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574).
  to the proposal in the pull request [Editor Proposal for 574 adding a justification enumeration #672](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/672).
  - DONE ibid

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  April 10, 2025 (after Daylight Savings Time begins)
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  May 15, 2025
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Results of [OASIS 2-year chair reappointment process](https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/oasis-committee-operations-process/#chairs)

> Co-chairs are Stefan Hagen and David Keaton

Co-Chair David announces that there may be more process items of this kind in the future
e.g. also to clarify the charter as suggested in the roadmap.

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

- None

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- David Malcolm: Presents his rationale and repository of examples for SARIF related to the 
  [Collection of example SARIF data for interoperability/testing/reference etc #677](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/677)
  - All discuss options for machine readable examples and tests
  - Stefan: Will extract the current examples from the prose and provide them as section named
    machine processable example files in a test tree where the comments are removed and the gaps
    are filled with minimal boilerplate.
  - All: Like a linkage between the external examples and the examples in the spec
  - Stefan: Offers to also add a contributed paralle test tree to allow contributed examples
    to be stored close to the spec after approval by the TC.
- David Malcolm: Experimented successfully with CBOR as serialization format which massively
  saves disk space.
- Charles: Will there be also a DCBOR trial?
- David Malcolm: Reading the spec first ...

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

* No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
* No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

- Text for [Consider adding bucketized 'justification' field for suppression object. #574](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/574)
  amended in pull request [Editor Proposal for 574 adding a justification enumeration #672](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/672)
- Reflected on and assessed the proposed examples and test suite like artifacts outside of the prose

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

- Pull request [Fix typo in XML example of logical locations (#669) #675](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/675)
  - Stefan moves to approve and merge that fix. 
    - David Malcolm seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.
- Pull request [Editor Proposal for 574 adding a justification enumeration #672](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/672)
  - Stefan moves to approve and merge that minimal proposal. 
    - David Malcolm seconds. 
      - Asks for reordering of the explaiing sections to align with the enumeration order.
      - Stefan offers to reorder. 
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent. 
        - The motion carries.

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

None

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

- Charles: Maybe mention future formats in a block inside the roadmap document.
- Stefan: Maybe add an information modeling section to enable generators for specific data serialization formats.
- Nathan: Maybe there are more perspectives and we need more use cases so first create one or two issues before
  adding to the roadmap document.

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

None

# 4. Other Business

None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to meet next after the April meeting on May 15, 2025

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649).
- ACTION on Stefan to extract the current examples from the prose and provide them as 
  section named machine processable example files in a test tree where the comments are removed and the gaps
  are filled with minimal boilerplate.
- ACTION on Charles to create an issue on future data serialization formats other than JSON
- ACTION on Stefan to create an issue on using information modeling to separate a future SARIF from the specific data formats 

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  April 10, 2025 (after Daylight Savings Time begins, i.e. Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
