 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | No      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual          | Co-Chair                  | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc    | Voter (leave of absence)  | NO      |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Six of the seven voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

- [Agenda for April 10, 2025](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72699/)

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

- [Minutes of 2025-03-06 Meeting #97](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72614/)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649).
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Stefan to extract the current examples from the prose and provide them as 
  section named machine processable example files in a test tree where the comments are removed and the gaps
  are filled with minimal boilerplate.
  - DONE (as a start, cf. comment at https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/677#issuecomment-2790533985)
- ACTION on Charles to create an issue on future data serialization formats other than JSON
  - DONE (created even a PR)
- ACTION on Stefan to create an issue on using information modeling to separate a future SARIF from the specific data formats 
  - DONE ([Investigate information modeling for future SARIF #680](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/680))

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  May 15, 2025 
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  June 12, 2025
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 SARIF TC Charter Clarification for 4-year charter reaffirmation process [Draft](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72698/)

> We are required to reaffirm our charter every four years.
> We may choose to take this opportunity to clarify it to embrace more than just static analysis.
> This was discussed with Chet a while back,
> and he suggested we do this as a clarification instead of a rechartering.
> We are NOT allowed to change the name of the TC,
> or make substantive changes to the scope or deliverables.
## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

- No news

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- David Malcolm: Played around with [JSON5](https://json5.org) noted reduction in size and enjoyed the
                 capability to add comments.

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

- Revisited tool to drive extraction and boilerplate injection of examples
  - Parasited the repository of examples issue from David Malcolm to note in
    [comment](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/677#issuecomment-2790533985)
    >> In addition, we already have an extract of examples from the SARIF prose at/below 
    >> [/sarif-2.2/prose/edit/src/json-examples](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/tree/main/sarif-2.2/prose/edit/src/json-examples)
    >The algorithm for extracting an "completing" the prose embedded examples was mainly:
    >
    >1. extract the snippet under a local derivable name that should avoid collisions with other examples by 
    >   construction and without knowledge of the effective section numberings.
    >2. remove the right margin comments identified by a hash character outside of any string member values.
    >3. inject pseudo members clearly exposing the ellipsis from the prose embedding as value string and a 
    >   coded auto-serialized key. 
    >   These members either injected directly or as members of an injected object as context dictates.
    >4. and some hacks I have forgotten in the year that passed since the extraction.
    >
    >I used the extraction to fix the many nits that many examples had, making it hard as they were to be
    >useful resources for copy-paste trial coding implementers.
- Created issue on investigation of future use of information modeling to become more independent of JSON
  - [Investigate information modeling for future SARIF #680](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/680)

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

None

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

Issue [Double file extensions cannot easily be implemented (nginx, Apache httpd2, Windows)#683](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/683)
- Stefan moves to close without action
  - Charles seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Issue [SARIF should have clearer guidance for sensitive data handling best practices #678](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/678)
- Stefan to provide editor text to be included in prose as proposed in his issue comment (proposal of place)

Issue [Add normative statement against case variation of required keys #681](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/681)
- David Malcolm: Sections 2.2 and 2.3 already state to rely on JSON serialization, thus case sensitivity
- Charles: If it validates it is valid, we use JSON Schema for a reason
- Stefan: As state in the issue proposal, the problem can be confusion of humans and tools
          wenn case variations of spec controlled keys occur
- Aditya: Likes the proposal and would add that we use JSON and that JSON keys are case sensitive
- David Malcolm: Section 3.1 sstates that in the future other serializations might be defined
                 ... maybe add that any such addition serialization should retain the case as defined int this spec for JSON
- Charles: Maybe constrain the spec controlled keys to ASCII
- ACTION on Stefan to extend the proposal on [Add normative statement against case variation of required keys #681](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/681)

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

- Charles: Pull request [Update Future.md #622](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/622) should have been merged already as agreed in a prior meeting
  - All agree: Action on Stefan to merge

- Charles: Pull request [futures addition #621](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/621) should be closed without merge, as it suggests a new "adjective"
           instead of "static" and we chose "system" in the past.
  - All agree: Action on Stefan to close without merge

- Charles: Walks all thorugh the change set of 685
- David Malcolm: Looks at using DWARF to embed SARIF results into the binary itself in a section or sections
- David Malcolm: Perhaps add under desired attributes to add an entry for that embedding feature
- All discuss use cases (which are different for David Malcolm and for Charles)
- All agree to continue with the discussion during next meeting

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

None

# 4. Other Business

None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to meet next after the May meeting on June 12 as the monthly June meeting

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649).
- ACTION on everyone to provide feedback on the SARIF TC Charter Clarification for 
  4-year charter reaffirmation process [Draft updated shortr after the meeting](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72706/) before the next meeting
- ACTION on Stefan to close issue [Double file extensions cannot easily be implemented (nginx, Apache httpd2, Windows)#683](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/683) without action
- ACTION on Stefan to extend the proposal on [Add normative statement against case variation of required keys #681](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/681)
- ACTION on Stefan to merge [Update Future.md #622](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/622) as agreed
- ACTION on Stefan to close [futures addition #621](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/621) without merge

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  May 15, 2025
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
