 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual          | Co-Chair                  | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc    | Voter (leave of absence)  | NO      |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Five of the seven voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

Notes:

- Aditya Sharad sent regrets before the meeting

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

- [Agenda for May 15, 2025](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72818/)

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

- [Minutes of 2025-04-10 Meeting #98](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72699/)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649).
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on everyone to provide feedback on the SARIF TC Charter Clarification for 
  4-year charter reaffirmation process [Draft](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72706/) before the next meeting
  - DONE
- ACTION on Stefan to close issue [Double file extensions cannot easily be implemented (nginx, Apache httpd2, Windows)#683](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/683) without action
  - DONE
- ACTION on Stefan to extend the proposal on [Add normative statement against case variation of required keys #681](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/681)
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Stefan to merge [Update Future.md #622](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/622) as agreed
  - DONE
- ACTION on Stefan to close [futures addition #621](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/621) without merge
  - DONE

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  June 12, 2025 
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  July 10, 2025
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 SARIF TC Charter Clarification for 4-year charter reaffirmation process [Draft](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72706/)

> The draft proposal for a charter clarification was introduced in the April meeting.
> Now, we will discuss whether to modify or take action on it.
> For reference, here is the OASIS process for charter clarification.

- Co-Chair David walks all tot he tlatest changes from short after the previous meeting
- All are aware and in favor.
- Co-Chair David informs about the next steps which will be a full majority vote first
  and if that pases, the draft is submitted to OASIS which will hold a special majority
  vote and if that succeeds the new charter will be put in effect.
- Stefan moves to hold a full majority note and kindly request the officers of the TC to
  collaborate with OASIS administration to initiate a special majority vote on the charter 
  update at https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72706/
- Full majority vote (with options YES, NO, or ABSTAIN):
  - Charles Wilson YES
  - David Keaton YES
  - David Malcolm YES
  - Michael Omokoh YES
  - Stefan Hagen YES
- Co-Chair David summarizes the result: 
  - 5 YES
  - 0 NO
  - 0 ABSTAIN
- Co-Chair David states that the full majority vote succeeds as 5 YES are the full majority 
  of the 7 voting members in total of the TC

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

None

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- David Malcolm: [GCC 15 released last month with SARIF improvements](https://gcc.gnu.org/gcc-15/changes.html#sarif)
- Stefan: The tool verilate (Linter for SuperVerilog as specified in IEEE 1800-2017) offers SARIF as
  report format as indicated by [artifact.sourceLanguage property for SystemVerilog #687](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/687)
  - David Malcolm: we should add the tool to the wiki page at
    https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/wiki/Known-Producers-and-Consumers 

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

- Created change-set to add SuperVerilog to example languages in appendix J:
  - [Added artifact.sourceLanguage property for SystemVerilog (#687) #688](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/688)
    - The reporter Wilson Snyder (@wsnyder) of 
      issue [artifact.sourceLanguage property for SystemVerilog #687](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/687)
      thanked us for the prompt consideration and implementation.
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec candidate.
- The editors suggest to add sarif to the language examples in that appendix J too.
  - This to implement the issue
    [artifact.sourceLanguage property (ยง3.24.10) for SARIF itself #654](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/654) reported by our own 
    David Malcolm.
- Amended issue on investigation of future use of information modeling to become more independent of JSON
  - [Investigate information modeling for future SARIF #680](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/680)

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

Change-Set [Added artifact.sourceLanguage property for SystemVerilog (#687) #688](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/688)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into main
  - Michael Omokoh seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

Issue [How to Convert Json value into Sarif format #660](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/660)
- Stefan moves to close as answered
  - David Malcolm seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Issue ["Progressive" or "dynamic" SARIF #661](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/661)
- Stefan moves to tag with 3.0 label and amends that this means 3.0 or later
  - David Malcolm seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

None

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

None

# 4. Other Business

None

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to meet next after the June meeting on July 10 as the monthly July meeting
- DECISION to accept the new charter draft at https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72706/ and
  request a special majority vote on the new charter from OASIS

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649).
  - ACTION on Stefan to extend the proposal on [Add normative statement against case variation of required keys #681](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/681)
- ACTION on Co-Chair David to request a special majority vote on the new charter from OASIS

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  June 12, 2025
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
