# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | Yes     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual          | Co-Chair                  | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Thanassis  | Avgerinos     | ForAllSecure Inc    | Voter (leave of absence)  | NO      |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Seven of the seven voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.


## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

- [Agenda for June 12, 2025](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72853/)

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

- [Minutes of 2025-05-15 Meeting #99](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72821/)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Co-Chair David to request a special majority vote on the new charter from OASIS.
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Stefan to try to propose text in context for [Consider using the "relevant to understanding the result" wording also in notifications/relatedLocation #649](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/649).
  - DONE
- ACTION on Stefan to extend the proposal on [Add normative statement against case variation of required keys #681](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/681)
  - DONE

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  July 10, 2025 
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  August 7, 2025
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 SARIF TC Charter Clarification for 4-year charter reaffirmation process [Draft](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72706/)

- Status report by CO-chair David that request has been issued and OASIS staff will create a ballot

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

None

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- David Malcolm: Reports on progress on the SARIF functionality of GCC and has a demo available
  and he presents that memory graph to the TC at 
  https://dmalcolm.fedorapeople.org/gcc/2025-06-09/state-diagram-1.c.html 
  which one can navigate using the j and k vim keys for motion.
  This allows navigating the stack of results which is typical and useful
  as visualization of the findings in memory as directed graph.
  This allows using the statements about navigation from the SARIF specification.
- David Malcolm: Asks if other consumers or producers are offering this navigation capability
- Aditya: CodeQL offers that internally but doies not offer externally. So, for
  internal debugging CodeQL allows causal navigation answering why some edge was entered and so.
  This is implemented via code flows and additional labels are custom properties.
- David Malcolm: The state info is in his demo currently generated via an XML
  formulation. Additional material at https://dmalcolm.fedorapeople.org/gcc/2025-06-09/.
- Aditya: Do we (SARIF) make it convenient for consumers and producers to annotate flows?

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting, but a new editor revision for this month will be made available.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

1. Created change-set to Fix typo in messages with embedded links #696:
  - [Fixed typo in messages with embedded links #696](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/696)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-06-12.

2. Created change-set to Enhance rationale for notification object #695:
  - [Enhanced rationale for notification object #695](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/695)
  - David Malcolm: Please change the final word result into notification (backticked) in line 106
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-06-12.

3. Created change-set to Provide prose explaining the use of guids #694:
  - [Provided prose explaining the use of guids #694](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/694)
  - All discuss
  - David Malcolm: Needs more time to review to reflect the
    implications of redacted result files with the same GUID values.
  - Stefan notes that v2.2 is a minor revision and adding hard conformance
    goals like forcing producers to change the GUID after redaction might
    break useful and proven workflows
  - David Malcolm adds that SARIF v2.1 already offers a redaction token field
  - Stefan thinks that a field does not make a defined role on which the spec 
    could mount precise conformance rules and he mentions CSAF where a large
    number of detailed prqactice proven roles is defined and requirements
    are mounted against those in the conformance sections of these roles.
  - Stefan suggests to continue the discussion on the PR offline and
    given agreement conducting an email motion on the TC mailing list.

4. Created change-set to Add normative statement on case rules for required keys #693:
  - [Added normative statement on case rules for required keys #693](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/693)
  - Charles suggest to constrain keys to UTF-8 subset (code points U+0031 to U+007F)
    excluding the control characters
  - Co-Chair David provides links to The Uniocde Technical Standard #39 on
    [Unicode Security Mechanimsns](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr39/)
    - Esp. [IDN Security Profiles for Identifiers](http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr39/#IDN_Security_Profiles) and
      [Restriction-Level Detection](http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr39/#Restriction_Level_Detection)
  - Stefan explains that confusion by degenerated keys is a different concern
    from the "bad will" security concerns of Unicode confusion through
    similar glyphs or swithcing between writing direction attacks
    and suggests to handle this in an additional security focused change-set.
  - Co-Chair David concludes, that any additional enhancements can be
    based on the proposed enhancemend and favors accepting the change-set
  - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
    into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-06-12.

5. Created draft change-set to Seed the editor revision 2025-06-12 #691:
  - [Seeded the editor revision 2025-06-12 #691](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/691)
    - the editors plan to have this change-set additionally receive the
      change-sets from PRs #693, #694, #695, and #696
    - the missing PDF generation capability will also be added to that change-set,
      before requesting approval by the members of the TC to merge
      that editor revision into the SARIF v2.2 spec main branch.
    - the editors propose to use an email motion for approval of that PR #691.

6. Requested guidance on issue #657:
  - [Is any escaping of URIs within "3.11.6 Messages with embedded links" needed? #657](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657)
    - plaese cf. comment https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657#issuecomment-2963928696
    - all discuss
    - David Malcolm suggests to add an example along the lines of the "unbalanced" one
      adding say "foo " before and " bar" after to illustrate the expected behavior

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

Change-Set [Fixed typo in messages with embedded links #696](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/696)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-06-12
  - David Malcolm seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Change-Set [Enhanced rationale for notification object #695](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/695)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-06-12
  after changing the final word result into notification (backticked) in line 106
  - David Maloclm seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Change-Set [Added normative statement on case rules for required keys #693](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/693)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-06-12
  - Charles seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Issue [Is any escaping of URIs within "3.11.6 Messages with embedded links" needed? #657](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657)
esp. comment https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657#issuecomment-2963928696
- Stefan moves to go with option 2 and amend with the example in the comment at
  https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/657#issuecomment-2475620829
  and create a change-set for discussion and approval to be included in the next editor revision.
  - David Malcolm seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion


## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Out of time

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Out of time

# 4. Other Business

Out of time

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to meet next after the July meeting on August 7 as the monthly August meeting

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on Co-Chair David to request a special majority vote on the new charter from OASIS.
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  July 10, 2025
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
