# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of four or more of the seven voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual          | Co-Chair                  | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Five of the seven voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

Information: Unfortunately Thanassis had to leave the TC.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

- [Agenda for July 10, 2025](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72902/)

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

- [Minutes of 2025-06-12 Meeting #100](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72851/)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on Co-Chair David to request a special majority vote on the new charter from OASIS.
  - DONE
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ONGOING - added issue [Seeking clarification on: locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/712) 
    that describes the need for additional clarity around this topic

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  August 7, 2025 
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  September 11, 2025
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Status of SARIF TC

- SARIF TC Charter Clarification for 4-year charter reaffirmation process

> Charter clarification approved by Special Majority Vote.
> Analysis is not limited to static, so a future SARIF v3.0 will be possible.

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

None noted.

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- David Malcolm: Amended the mechanismn behind the demo he showed during last TC meeting. 
  This patch will hopefully land in gcc trunc in the next days.
  Question: Does any viewer show SARIF graphs? Answer: None known to the members present.
- Co-Chair David: Maybe ask Aditya next time?
- David Malcolm: https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc-patches/2025-June/687331.html 
  screenshot: https://dmalcolm.fedorapeople.org/gcc/2025-06-23/vscode-viewing-dg-lint-sarif-output.png 
  show the SARIF output of a python script he wrote and how that SARIF then is shown in VS Code.

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting, but a new editor revision for this month will be made available.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

1. Created change-set to en passant restore the lost section sign prefix to section link displays (w/o ToC) #703:
  - [Add pdf generation #702](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/702)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-06-12.

2. Finalized change-set for editor revision 2025-06-12 #691 (cf. above item 2 provides the final two missing pieces):
  - [Editor revision 2025-06-12 #691](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/691)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec main branch.

3. Created change-set to implement addition of the title of the spec as value of the title tag in HTML #710:
  - [Added semantic title injection to HTML generator chain #711](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/711)
    - David Malcolm: please fix the typo in conponent line 131
    - Charles: please add a comment on why we do this patch
    - the editors kindly request approval including fix and comment by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-07-10 (to be branched off of main after merge of #691 into main).

4. Created change-set to fix glossary in terminology section lacks entry for "analysis tool" #708:
  - [Amended glossary with term: "analysis tool" #709](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/709)
    - Co-Chair David: Change processes to entities in line 5
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-07-10 (to be branched off of main after merge of #691 into main).

5. Created change-set to fix unescaped backslash in 3.11.6 Messages with embedded links #701:
  - [Escaped backslash in 3.11.6 Messages with embedded links #707](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/707)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-07-10 (to be branched off of main after merge of #691 into main).

6. Created change-set to fix annotated fenced code block in 3.27.22 relatedLocations property #705:
  - [Annotate fenced code block in 3.27.22 relatedLocations property #706](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/705)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge
      into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-07-10 (to be branched off of main after merge of #691 into main).


### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

Change-Set [Add pdf generation #702](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/702)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-06-12
  - Charles seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Change-Set [Editor revision 2025-06-12 #691](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/691)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into main
  - David Malcolm seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Change-Set [Added semantic title injection to HTML generator chain #711](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/711)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge after fix and commenting into editor-revision-2025-07-10
  - David Malcolm seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Change-Set [Amended glossary with term: "analysis tool" #709](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/709)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-07-10
  - David Malcolm seconds.
  - Stefan amends the motion to add fix for the typo in component and adding comments before merging
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Change-Set [Escaped backslash in 3.11.6 Messages with embedded links #707](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/707)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-07-10
  - David Malcolm seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

Change-Set [Annotate fenced code block in 3.27.22 relatedLocations property #706](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/705)
- Stefan moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-07-10
  - Charles seconds.
    - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
      - The motion carries.

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

- David Malcolm: Walks all through his reported issue
  [Seeking clarification on: locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/712)

> "2.5 Commonly used objects" defines "theResult" as "The result object (ยง3.27) containing the object under discussion.refers to "
>
> FWIW In GCC's I have `class sarif_location_manager` as a base class for locations and notifications.
>
> Suggest we add something like "theLocationOwner"
> see also https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/712 : what about locations in nodes in graphs in run graphs?
- Co-Chair David: Can we maybe add a visual representation of the syntax?  
- Stefan: Can we add a YAMLish display of the syntax as a minimal example in the issue?
- Charles: If it is not forbidden, implementers can do it. location.id in the context of a run may be useful or maybe null; pure documentation issue?
- Co-Chair David: Kindly asks David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file illustrating the syntax to issue #712
- Charles: If it is a schema isue, let us move it "up".

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Skipped.

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Skipped.

# 4. Other Business

Skipped.

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to meet next after the August meeting on September 11 as the monthly September meeting

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).

- ACTION on David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file illustrating the syntax to issue #712

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  August 7, 2025
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
