# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair David)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair David)

Quorum requires participation of five or more of the seven voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Keaton        | Individual          | Co-Chair                  | YES     |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Five of the seven voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

Information: Nathan Baird will loose voting rights when not participating in the September meeting.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair David)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair David)

- [Agenda for August 07, 2025](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72946/)

Agenda was approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

- [Minutes of 2025-07-10 Meeting #101](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/72903/)

Minutes were approved

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ONGOING
- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ONGOING; realized that #712 questions on the intent of the specification block solution for #540
- ACTION on David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file illustrating the syntax to
  issue [Seeking clarification on: locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/712).
  - ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair David)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

- Michael Omokoh

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  September 11, 2025 
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC for 1.5 hours)
  ```
  October 09, 2025
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Administrative items

- Co-Chair David: Lost funding for SARIF work and this will be his last meeting.
  He will continue for three weeks to support the transition.
  Any proposals for Co-chair are welcome.
  Thinks it is a good idea, to finish up SARIF v2.2 as quick as possible to
  offer new TC members short term perspectives to work on v3.0.
- Stefan: Sad to see David Keaton leave. Thanks David and states,
  that he (Stefan) has learned a lot from David's always solution oriented, agile,
  and kind ways of supporting the TC. David will be dearly missed.
- All acknowledge the great support and guidance, that David has offered over the years
  and they will miss him. They wish him well for the future.

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

None.

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- Aditya: SARIF viewers produced by Microsoft for VS Code and Visual Studio are currently unowned
  Should we take it over as open source for OASIS (SARIF TC) to host the following two code bases? 
  - Visual Studio (csharp based): https://github.com/microsoft/sarif-visualstudio-extension 
  - VS Code (typescript based): https://github.com/microsoft/sarif-vscode-extension
- David Malcolm: Both are offered under MIT license, so no problem from the licenses.
- David Malcolm: csharp and typescript code maintenance may not be available from the TC members
- Stefan: We could engage OASIS to host under the oasis-open organization, which is optimal
  for tools in contrast to TC work products like specs;
  Example https://github.com/oasis-open/dps-metadata-generator
- Stefan: Hosting "close" to the TC and to "each other" would ease sharing of test data
  and test suites that are approved by the TC and can be a shared asset for the different implementations
- All agree, that the TC has interest in understanding the preferred options from Microsoft and
  everyone is in general positive about supporting by guarding maintainership via OASIS
  channels but not "promising active coding maintenance" per the members of the TC.

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting, but a new editor revision for this month will be made available.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

The editors would love to plan for the September Editor revision to become a CSD01/CSDPR01.
For that we may need to move some unevolving v2.2 candidate issues out of scope.
A short triage talk over the issues in above filter
(that do not yet have an implementatble proposal or a pull request) is more than welcome.

1. Started to prepare a issue freeze for 2.2 list:
- https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Aneeds-attention
- Discussion:
  - #611: 
    - Aditya: keep #611 (proposal almost there), will provide a PR - all in favour
  - #612:
    - Aditya: keep #612 (proposal almost there), will provide a PR - all in favour
    - Charles: Suggests to map value 0 to null, and not have that special value inside "low" class / category
    - All agree 
  - #719:
    - Stefan: keep #719 (comprehensible example SHALL be valid), will provide a PR - all in favour
  - #588:
    - David Malcolm: drop it for 2.2 (and drop all three labels, in favor of 3.0) - all in favour
  - #614
    - Reporter Nathan documented that it may be OK to not be in 2.2 ...
    - David Malcolm: relabel to 3.0 and remove other labels - all in favour
  - #615:
    - Reporter Nathan documented that it may be OK to not be in 2.2 ...
    - David Malcolm: relabel to 3.0 and remove other labels - all in favour

2. Created change-set [Fixed example 1 in 3.13.5 inline external properties #727](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/727)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-08-07.

3. Created change-set [Updated version value of example 1 extracted from section 3.3.4 #728](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/728)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-08-07.

4. Created change-set [Simplified sarif schema path #730](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/730)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-08-07.
    - Charles: asks about versions and version upgrades
    - Stefan: points to discussion in #727 (mainly: https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/727#discussion_r2258211773)
    - All in favour
    - Aditya: Thank you that resolves a long-standing point of confusion on versioning

5. Created change-set [Updated version and schema values in various examples #731](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/731)
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge into the SARIF v2.2 spec editor-revision-2025-08-07.

6. Created [Editor Revision 2025-08-07 #725](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/725) as collection of the change-sets 2. - 5.
    - the editors kindly request approval by the members of the TC to merge into this SARIF v2.2 editor-revision-2025-08-07 into the main branch
      as preparation for the future editor-revision-2025-09-11.

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

1. List of issues removed from 2.2.0: LIST(#588, #614, and #615)
   - David Malcolm moves to exclude the above "LIST" of issues from SARIF v2.2 and to label accordingly with 3.0, while dropping all other labels.
    - Charles seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.

2. Change-Set [Fixed example 1 in 3.13.5 inline external properties #727](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/727)
  - David Malcolm moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-08-07
    - Charles seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.

3. Change-Set [Updated version value of example 1 extracted from section 3.3.4 #728](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/728)
  - Charles moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-08-07
    - David Malcolm seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.

4. Change-Set [Simplified sarif schema path #730](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/730)
  - David Malcolm moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-08-07
    - Charles seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.

5. Change-Set [Updated version and schema values in various examples #731](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/731)
  - David Malcolm moves to approve and merge into editor-revision-2025-08-07
    - Stefan seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.

6. Change-Set [Editor Revision 2025-08-07 #725](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/725)
  - David Malcolm moves to approve and merge into main after inclusion of all prior agreed changesets #727, #728, #730, and #731
    - Charles seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

None

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

- Stefan moves to merge already approved #685.
  - Charles seconds.
      - No objections, no further discussions, and unanimous consent.
        - The motion carries.

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

- Charles: based on https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-231.pdf 
  there is the Bugs Framework e.g. at https://usnistgov.github.io/BF/info/bf-classes/overview/, which
  may be helpful for SARIF categorizations. For example, DVL talks how data errors are composed;
  so, bucketing issues, formalizing buckets for issues we can draw from for categorization in broader sense
- David Malcolm: these properties might be helpful - example memory vulnerability _MEM section examples for CWE_
- All discuss and browse within https://usnistgov.github.io/BF/info/bf-classes/overview/

# 4. Other Business

- David Malcolm: at https://dmalcolm.fedorapeople.org/gcc/2025-07-10/diagnostic-test-graphs-html.c.html 
  there are some gcc generated graphs from SARIF plugin that show dependencies and he would appreciate
  any feedback.

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair David)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to meet next after the September meeting on October 9 as the monthly October meeting

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue [location.id within a notification object #540](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/540).
  - ACTION on David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file illustrating the syntax to
  issue [Seeking clarification on: locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/712).
  Note: lack of #712 progress currently blocks #540 resolution, thus all should support
  per discussions on TC mailing list or in the issues.
  
- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611
- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the value 0 to null,
  and not have that special value inside "low" class / category
- ACTION on Aditya to come back to the September TC meeting with a consolidated perspective
  from Microsoft on hosting / continuation options for the SARIF Viewers.
- ACTION on Stefan to provide a PR for #719.
- ACTION on Stefan to to exclude issues #588, #614, and #615 from SARIF v2.2 and
  to label accordingly with 3.0, while dropping all other labels.
  - DONE after the meeting. 
- ACTION on Stefan to merge the approved PRs #727, #728, #730, #731, and finally #725 into the main branch
  - DONE after the meeting. 

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  September 11, 2025
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
