# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Stefan)

Quorum requires participation of three or more of the five voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Member                    | YES     |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Four of the five voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Stefan)

- [Agenda for September 11, 2025](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/agenda/2025/2025-09-11-agenda.md)

Agenda was amended with adding a visibility topic under AOB and approved.

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair Stefan)

- [Minutes of 2025-08-07 Meeting #102](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/250807_SARIF_TC_102.md)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide 
  escaping of URIs. (ONGOING)

- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue location.
  id within a notification object #540. (BLOCKED By #712)

- ACTION on David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file 
  illustrating the syntax to issue Seeking clarification on: 
  locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712. 
  Note: lack of #712 progress currently blocks #540 resolution, 
  thus all should support per discussions on TC mailing list or 
  in the issues. (NEEDS SARIF EXPERT SUPPORT)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611 (ONGOING)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
  value 0 to null, and not have that special value
  inside "low" class / category (ONGOING)

- ACTION on Aditya to come back to the September TC meeting 
  with a consolidated perspective from Microsoft on hosting / 
  continuation options for the SARIF Viewers. (DONE)

- ACTION on Stefan to provide a PR for #719. (ONGOING)

- ACTION on Stefan to to exclude issues #588, #614, and #615 
  from SARIF v2.2 and to label accordingly with 3.0, 
  while dropping all other labels. (DONE)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Stefan)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

- Nathan Baird (did not join, lost voting rights after the meeting)

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

- Michael Omokoh will attain voting rights after the next meeting, in case he participates in that meeting too.

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```
  October 09, 2025
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```
  November 06, 2025
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Administrative items

Full Majority Vote on additional Co-Chair Role:

- Aditya Sharad

David Malcom moved to do a Full Majority vote on approving Aditya Sharad as Co-Chair. Charles seconded.
No discussion, unanimuous consent, the motion carried.

A vote was conducted via the meeting chat:

```
Charles Wilson (11. Sept. 2025, 17:17): approve
David Malcolm (11. Sept. 2025, 17:17): approve
Stefan Hagen (11. Sept. 2025, 17:17): Approve
Aditya Sharad (11. Sept. 2025, 17:17): Approve
Michael Omokoh (11. Sept. 2025, 17:17): Yes for me (even if I am not a voting member now😂)

```

Result:

- four out of four of present voting members in favor.
- This (four) is the full majority of the five voting members of the TC in total.

Aditya Sharad is now Co-Chair together with Stefan Hagen.
All congratulate.

Notes from [TC Handbook](https://docs.oasis-open.org/templates/TCHandbook/content/voting/fullmajority.htm) on Full Majority votes:

> A Full Majority Vote requires 'yes' votes from greater than 50% of all Voting Members. Abstentions are not counted.
>
> For instance, in a TC in which there are 20 Voting Members, at least 11 must vote "yes" for a motion to pass.
>
> Certain actions are identified in the TC Process as requiring a Full Majority vote:
>
> - \[...]
> - election of a Chair or Co-Chair
> - \[...]
>
> A Technical Committee has the option of using either the OASIS groupware system or email to run an electronic ballot.
> It must be noted, however, that all electronic ballots must be open for at least 7 days.

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

- Charles: Reminds everyone on the BUG framework maybe becoming more related to SARIF in the future

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- Aditya: Discussed ownership of the SARIF-Viewr extensions with Michael Fanning and others within Microsoft.
  Signals received are that we (OASIS/SARIF TC) may be able host ... but new features might be off for now.
- David: Could we maybe later add other languages than C# or TypeScript.
- All discuss.
- Aditya: Feels comfortable to be added as maintainer to the existing two repositories.
- All welcome that and thank Aditya.
- David: Worked on support for suppresions on results for gcc (targeting v16) SARIF
         https://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=121039 

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

No progress on editor revision.

Open items for that:

- #611: Aditya will provide a PR

- #612: Aditya will provide a PR

- #719: Stefan will provide a PR

- #712: TC members shall answer questions to unblock the issue and #540

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

None

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

None

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

None

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

None

# 4. Other Business

- Charles: Visibility of the work in the TC should be increased by attracting experts as members to the TC and
         spread news on the widening of scope from static to system of our work.
         Suggests to create something like a conference poster or similar colateral
- Stefan: OASIS Technical Report is available as a "format" too (will provide examples to the TC)

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to meet next after the October meeting on November 6 as the monthly November meeting
- DECISION on second Co-Chair Aditya Sharad (per full majority vote recorded in section 3.1)

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):

  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide 
  escaping of URIs. (ONGOING)

  - ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue location.
    id within a notification object #540. (BLOCKED By #712)

  - ACTION on David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file 
    illustrating the syntax to issue Seeking clarification on: 
    locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712. 
    Note: lack of #712 progress currently blocks #540 resolution, 
    thus all should support per discussions on TC mailing list or 
    in the issues. (NEEDS SARIF EXPERT SUPPORT)
  
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611 (ONGOING)
  
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
    value 0 to null, and not have that special value
    inside "low" class / category (ONGOING)
    
  - ACTION on Stefan to provide a PR for #719. (ONGOING)
  
  
- ACTION on Stefan to share examples of OASIS Technical Reports from other TCs (published and drafts)

- ACTION on Stefan to work with OASIS admins to provide Aditya chair-level access and visibility in the OASIS systems

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  October 9, 2025
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned. 
