# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Stefan)

Quorum requires participation of three or more of the five voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | ???     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | ??      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | ??      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | ??      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | ???     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | ??      |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | ???     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | ??      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | ??      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | ??      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | ??      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | ??      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | ??      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | ??      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | ??      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | ??      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | ??      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | ???     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | ??      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | ??      |

... of the five voting members present - quorum was ... reached.

The meeting does ... count against voting rights.

Information: ...

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Stefan)

- [Agenda for September 11, 2025](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/agenda/2025/2025-09-11-agenda.md)

Agenda was ...

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair Stefan)

- [Minutes of 2025-08-07 Meeting #102](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/250807_SARIF_TC_102.md)

Minutes were ...

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide 
  escaping of URIs. (STATUS)

- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue location.
  id within a notification object #540. (STATUS)

- ACTION on David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file 
  illustrating the syntax to issue Seeking clarification on: 
  locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712. 
  Note: lack of #712 progress currently blocks #540 resolution, 
  thus all should support per discussions on TC mailing list or 
  in the issues. (STATUS)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611 (STATUS)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
  value 0 to null, and not have that special value
  inside "low" class / category

- ACTION on Aditya to come back to the September TC meeting 
  with a consolidated perspective from Microsoft on hosting / 
  continuation options for the SARIF Viewers. (STATUS)

- ACTION on Stefan to provide a PR for #719. (ONGOING)

- ACTION on Stefan to to exclude issues #588, #614, and #615 
  from SARIF v2.2 and to label accordingly with 3.0, 
  while dropping all other labels. (DONE)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Stefan)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

- Nathan Baird

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```
  October 09, 2025
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```
  November 06, 2025
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Administrative items

Full Majority Vote on additional Co-Chair Role:

- Aditya Sharad

Notes from [TC Handbook](https://docs.oasis-open.org/templates/TCHandbook/content/voting/fullmajority.htm) on Full Majority votes:

> A Full Majority Vote requires 'yes' votes from greater than 50% of all Voting Members. Abstentions are not counted.
>
> For instance, in a TC in which there are 20 Voting Members, at least 11 must vote "yes" for a motion to pass.
>
> Certain actions are identified in the TC Process as requiring a Full Majority vote:
>
> - \[...]
> - election of a Chair or Co-Chair
> - \[...]
>
> A Technical Committee has the option of using either the OASIS groupware system or email to run an electronic ballot.
> It must be noted, however, that all electronic ballots must be open for at least 7 days.

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

...

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

...

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting, and no new editor revision for this month.
- ... other subgroup discussions.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

No progress on editor revision.

Open items for that:

- #611: Aditya will provide a PR

- #612: Aditya will provide a PR

- #719: Stefan will provide a PR

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

...

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

...

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

...

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

...

# 4. Other Business

...

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to ... meet next after the October meeting on November 6 as the monthly November meeting
- DECISION to ...

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):
  - ACTION on ...
  
- ACTION on ...

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  October 9, 2025
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting ...
