# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Stefan)

Quorum requires participation of three or more of the five voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Four of the five voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Roll call
- Agenda approval
- Previous minutes approval
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/250911_SARIF_TC_103.md
- Review of action items and resolutions
- Future meetings
  - Proposed are 2025-01-08 and 2026-02-05 (in Winter 16:00 - 17:00 UTC)
- Discussion (including issues and pull requests with focus on SARIF v2.2)
- Other business
- Resolutions and decisions reached
- Next meeting
- Adjournment

Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair Stefan)

- [Minutes of 2025-09-11 Meeting #103](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/250911_SARIF_TC_103.md)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide 
  escaping of URIs #612.
  - ONGOING

- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue location.
  id within a notification object #540.
  - DONE - PR provided

- ACTION on David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file 
  illustrating the syntax to issue Seeking clarification on: 
  locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712. 
  Note: lack of #712 progress currently blocks #540 resolution, 
  thus all should support per discussions on TC mailing list or 
  in the issues.
  - DONE in comment <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/712#issuecomment-3164529031>

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611
  - ONGOING

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
  value 0 to null, and not have that special value
  inside "low" class / category
  - ONGOING

- ACTION on Stefan to provide a PR for #719.
  - DONE cf. [PR#742](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/742)

- ACTION on Stefan to share examples of OASIS Technical Reports
  from other TCs (published and drafts)
  - DONE - email to TC mailing list

- ACTION on Stefan to work with OASIS admins to provide Aditya
  chair-level access and visibility in the OASIS systems
  - DONE - Aditya is listed as chair role in the OASIS systems


## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Stefan)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```
  January 08, 2026
  February 05, 2026
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

- No report

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- Aditya: Michael Fanning found support from Microsoft for further development of
  the SARIF VS Code Viewer extensions and work may start as early as February 2026!

- David:
  - Added experimental SARIF JSON-RPC notifications for IDEs to gcc
    >https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc-patches/2025-November/700258.html>
  - Added event kinds for special control flow
    <https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc-patches/2025-November/699577.html>
  - Added a new page to the TC wiki on known extensions to SARIF
    <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/wiki/Known-extensions-to-SARIF>

- Stefan: During the CSAF Community Days 2025, in Nuremberg, Germany, Patrick Rissmann ([l3montree GmbH](https://l3montree.com/))
  presented the talk "[Bringing Trusted Vulnerability Reporting to Every Organization with DevGuard](https://www.csaf.io/community-days/2025/#bringing-trusted-vulnerability-reporting-to-every-organization-with-devguard)"
  demonstrating [DevGuard](https://devguard.org), a tool that combines CSAF, SARIF, SBOMs, and VEX (albeit
  the abstract does not mention SARIF).

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

Target for Editor Redvision 2025-12-04

- Created a receiving branch and draft pull request for the 2025-12-04 editor revision at
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/741>

Open items with PRs for that:

- #540: Introduce "theLocationOwner" for the current result or notification (#540) [#736](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/736)
  - David: Walks everyone through the changes.
    - David moves to merge into the editor revision. Aditya seconds.
      - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- #466: Add "bytes" for columnKind (#466) [#740](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/740)
  - David: Walks everyone through the changes.
    - David moves to merge into the editor revision. Aditya seconds.
      - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- #719: Fixed Comprehensive Example in v2.2 (#719) [PR #742](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/742)
  - Stefan: Walks everyone through the changes.
    - David moves to merge into the editor revision. Aditya seconds.
      - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 


Open items awaiting proposals / PRs:

- #611: SARIF 2.2 proposal: precision field for reportingDescriptors and results (#611) - Aditya will provide a PR

- #612: SARIF 2.2 proposal: security-severity field for reportingDescriptors and results (#612) - Aditya will provide a PR

- #712: TC members shall answer questions to unblock the issue and #540
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/712#issuecomment-3164529031

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

Cf. the motions noted in the preceding section "3.3.1 Editor's report"

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

Skipped

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Skipped

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Skipped

# 4. Other Business

- David: Offers to support as maintainer of the oasis-tcs/sarif-spec GitHub TC repository
  - All are in favor!

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to hold the January 2026 meet on 2026-01-08
- DECISION to hold the February 2026 meet on 2026-02-05
- DECISION to have David Malcolm as additional maintainer for the oasis-tcs/sarif-spec GitHub TC repo.

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):

  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
    value 0 to null, and not have that special value
    inside "low" class / category
      
- ACTION on Stefan to work with OASIS admins to enable the GitHub maintainer role for David

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  January 08, 2026
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned. 
