# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Stefan)

Quorum requires participation of three or more of the five voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | NO      |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

- regrets from David

Three of the five voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Roll call
- Agenda approval
- Previous minutes approval
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/251204_SARIF_TC_104.md
- Review of action items and resolutions
- Future meetings
  - Scheduled is 2026-02-05 (in Winter 16:00 - 17:00 UTC)
- Discussion (including issues and pull requests with focus on SARIF v2.2)
- Other business
- Resolutions and decisions reached
- Next meeting
- Adjournment

Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair Stefan)

- [Minutes of 2025-12-04 Meeting #104](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/251204_SARIF_TC_104.md)

Minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text for #658.
  - ONGOING

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611
  - ONGOING

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
  value 0 to null, and not have that special value
  inside "low" class / category
  - ONGOING

- ACTION on Stefan to work with OASIS admins to enable the GitHub maintainer role for David
  - DONE

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Stefan)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```
  February 05, 2026
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

- No report

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- Aditya: Challenged code security products to use SARIF and also advocated
  the use SARIF for security reviews

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

Stefan: Reduced the number of issues targeting SARIF version 2.2.

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

- PR "Editor Redvision 2025-12-04" <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/741>
  - Stefan: Walks everyone through the changes.
    - Aditya moves to merge the editor revision 2025-12-04 into main. Charles seconds.
      - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

Open items with PRs for that:

- "Let us update the chairs section in the SARIF 2.2 draft #750"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/750>
  - Charles moves to accept the proposal. Aditya seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Consider: distinguishing between viewable and programmable work item links #454"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/454>
  - Charles moves to not implement in 2.2 and tag as future. Stefan seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Define "skipped" artifact roles #463"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/463>
  - Stefan moves to not implement in 2.2 and tag as 3.0. Charles seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Two errors in the algorithm for calculating result.level #470"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/470>
  - Charles: There seems to be an indentation level problem
  - Aditya: Thinks that their implementations behave that way already.
  - Stefan to make PR indent fix problem spot by charles adity thinks they do it that way

- "Add reportingConfiguration.kind #467"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/467>
  - Aditya and Charles: Agree that expectedOutcome would be better than kind,
    but result has already kind
  - Charles: Should be a list of expected outcomes on the rule level
  - Aditya moves to not implement in 2.2 and tag as 3.0. Charles seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries. 

- "SARIF 2.2 proposal: `security-severity` field for reportingDescriptors and results #612"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/612>
  - Charles suggests to use cybersecuritySeverity or securitySeverity in 2.2 (camelCase).


## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Skipped

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Skipped

# 4. Other Business

Skipped

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

No decisions apart from the motions.

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):

  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
    value 0 to null, and not have that special value
    inside "low" class / category

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  February 05, 2026
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
