# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Stefan)

Quorum requires participation of three or more of the four voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Co-Chair                  | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Four of the four voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Roll call
- Agenda approval
- Previous minutes approval
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/260108_SARIF_TC_105.md
- Review of action items and resolutions
- Future meetings
  - Proposed
    - 2026-03-05 (in Winter 16:00 - 17:00 UTC)
    - 2026-04-02 (in Summer 15:00 - 16:00 UTC)
- Discussion (including issues and pull requests with focus on SARIF v2.2)
- Other business
- Resolutions and decisions reached
- Next meeting
- Adjournment

Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair Stefan)

- [Minutes of 2026-01-08 Meeting #105](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/260108_SARIF_TC_105.md)

Skipped.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text for #658.
  - ONGOING

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611
  - ONGOING

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
  value 0 to null, and not have that special value
  inside "low" class / category
  - ONGOING

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Stefan)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Proposed Teleconference
  ```
  March 05, 2026 (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 16:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  April 02, 2026 (Thursday at 08:00 PST / 15:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

- No report

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- David: On gcc `-fdiagnostics-add-output=sarif`
  - commit [diagnostics: add optional CFG dumps to SARIF/HTML output sinks](https://gcc.gnu.org/git/?p=gcc.git;a=commit;h=e20eee3897ae8cd0f2212dad0710d64df8f1a956)
  - announcement [\[pushed; r16-6966\] sarif-replay: improve path output when source is unavailable \[PR122622\]](https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc-patches/2026-January/706492.html)
  - commit [diagnostics: respect dumpdir when outputting SARIF and HTML file \[PR110522\]](https://gcc.gnu.org/cgit/gcc/commit/?id=6fe28020cae53e3703921aedb9f267115a5262d3)


## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

Stefan (per email to the list 2026-02-05T01:14:17 UTC):

> suggest we discuss the open pull requests and additional issues
> where pull requests have been advertized - nudge, nudge ... 
> looking especially at:
> 
> - Ambiguous interpretation of square brackets in plaintext ... #658
> - SARIF 2.2 proposal: security-severity field for ... #612
> - SARIF 2.2 proposal: precision field for reportingDescriptors ... #611
> 
> 
> The provided implementations of issue proposals are:
> 
> - Updated the chairs section in the SARIF 2.2 draft (# 750) # 755 
> - Added algol68 language to source language appendix (# 751) # 754 
> - Added verbs to thread-flow-location kinds (# 735) # 756 
> - Added informative example on handling of sensitive data (# 678) # 757 
> - Fixed errors in the algorithm for calculating result.level (# 470) # 758 
> 
> These above pull requests all target the editor revision collector
> pull request at: 
> 
> - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/753 
> 
> The list of open issues with version 2.2 tag is at:
> 
> - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3A2.2

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

- "Added algol68 language to source language appendix (#751)"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/754>
  - Aditya moves to accept the proposal. Stefan seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Updated the chairs section in the SARIF 2.2 draft (#750)"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/755>
  - Stefan moves to accept the proposal. Aditya seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Added verbs to thread-flow-location kinds (#735)"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/756>
  - Charles moves to accept the proposal. David seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Added informative example on handling of sensitive data (#678)"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/757>
  - Stefan moves to accept the proposal after application of the suggestion. David seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Fixed errors in the algorithm for calculating result.level (#470)"
  <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/758>
  - Aditya moves (noting that we can avoid this in future with code blocks,
    or braces in algorithms) to accept the proposal. Stefan seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

- David: Whats new in 2.2 might go in the specification.
- Stefan: WIll provide a section file and binding order for that content.

- Charles:
  - Educative narratives / acting as marketing may need large files,
    question: Where to put such artifacts?
- Stefan: Will take this to OASIS and come back with a consolidated offering

- "SARIF 2.2 proposal: precision field for reportingDescriptors and results"
  - <https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/611> 
  - David: It seems to me that the best way to take this forward is for us
    to propose a specific wording on this as a PR, and then we can hopefully
    get some movement on this (applies also to
    [SARIF 2.2 proposal: security-severity field for reportingDescriptors and results #612](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/612)).
  - Charles: Quantification as well as quantization are established,
    but disjoint per domain or even per vendor cf. upcoming standards
    in automotive the supply chain transitive can change the values
    - Examples (for the formats and sizes - these are not related to SARIF):
      - [Threat Prioritization - Presentation](https://github.com/AVCDL/AVCDL/blob/main/training/threat%20prioritization/threat%20prioritization%20-%20presentation.pptx)
      - [A video](https://youtu.be/Km5bK6ou-8I)
  - Stefan: Will grep the previous minutes for decisions related to #611
    and [SARIF 2.2 proposal: security-severity field for reportingDescriptors and results #612](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/612)

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Skipped

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

Skipped

# 4. Other Business

Skipped

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION to next meet 2026-03-05 and 2026-04-02.

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Ongoing ACTIONS (from former meetings):

  - ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide escaping of URIs.
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611
  - ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
    value 0 to null, and not have that special value
    inside "low" class / category

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  March 05, 2026
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
