# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Stefan)

Quorum requires participation of three or more of the four voting members.

| First Name | Last Name     | Company             | Role(s)                   | Present |
|:-----------|:--------------|:--------------------|:--------------------------|:--------|
| Aditya     | Sharad        | Microsoft           | Co-Chair                  | YES     |
| Alexandre  | Dulaunoy      | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Andras     | Iklody        | CIRCL               | Member                    | NO      |
| Arjun      | Gopalakrishna | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Charles    | Wilson        | Torc Robotics, Inc. | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Chris      | Meyer         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| David      | Malcolm       | Red Hat             | Voting Member             | YES     |
| Eddy       | Nakamura      | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Kevin      | Greene        | Mitre Corporation   | Member                    | NO      |
| Luke       | Cartey        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Mary       | Martin        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Michael    | Fanning       | Microsoft           | Member (leave of absence) | NO      |
| Michael    | Omokoh        | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Nathan     | Baird         | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Brookes       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Paul       | Seay          | Northrop Grumman    | Member                    | NO      |
| Ross       | Wollman       | Microsoft           | Member                    | NO      |
| Stefan     | Hagen         | Individual          | Co-Chair, taking notes    | YES     |
| Tim        | Hudson        | Cryptsoft Pty Ltd.  | Member                    | NO      |
| Vadim      | Okun          | NIST                | Observer                  | NO      |

Four of the four voting members present - quorum was reached.

The meeting does count against voting rights.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Roll call
- Agenda approval
- Previous minutes approval
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/260108_SARIF_TC_105.md
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/260205_SARIF_TC_106.md
- Review of action items and resolutions
- Future meetings
  - Scheduled
    - 2026-04-02 (in Summer 15:00 - 16:00 UTC)
  - Proposed
    - 2026-05-07 (in Summer 15:00 - 16:00 UTC)
    - 2026-06-11 (in Summer 15:00 - 16:00 UTC)
- Discussion (including issues and pull requests with focus on SARIF v2.2)
- Other business
- Resolutions and decisions reached
- Next meeting
- Adjournment

Agenda was approved

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair Stefan)

- [Minutes of 2026-01-08 Meeting #105](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/260108_SARIF_TC_105.md)
- [Minutes of 2026-02-05 Meeting #106](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/meeting_minutes/260205_SARIF_TC_106.md)

Both minutes were approved.

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text for #658.
  - DONE

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611
  - DONE

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612
  - DONE

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Stefan)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Stefan)

- Scheduled Teleconference
  ```
  April 02, 2026 (Thursday at 08:00 PST / 15:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```
- Proposed Teleconference
  ```
  May 07, 2026 (Thursday at 08:00 PST / 15:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  June 11, 2026 (Thursday at 08:00 PST / 15:00 UTC ~ 1 hr)
  ```

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.1.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

Nothing reported.

### 3.1.2 Other Ecosystem Items

- Aditya: Work on agents and tools to emit their results some of which will be SARIF

## 3.2 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting and no new editor revision for this month.
- No other subgroup discussions.

## 3.3 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.3.1 Editor's report

No editor report.

### 3.4.2 Approval of changes

- "Add precision property to result and reportingDescriptor #766"
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/766
  - related to issue:
    - SARIF 2.2 proposal: precision field for reportingDescriptors and results #611
  - Aditya walks all through the changes
  - all agree to add, that these numbers between 0.0 and 100.0 may be floating point numbers
  - interpretation may change between versions
  - Aditya will add that to the PR
  - Stefan moves to accept the amended proposal to merge into editor-revision-20260305. David seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Add securitySeverity property to result and reportingDescriptor #767"
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/767
  - related to issue:
    - SARIF 2.2 proposal: securitySeverity field for reportingDescriptors and results #612
  - Aditya walks all through the changes
  - Charles suggests to remove impact wording and keep only exploitability
  - All agree to remove "impact or"
  - Should we rename the property to securityExploitability?
  - Aditya will check with other implementers.
  - David can we have a note explaining difference between precision and securityExploitability?
  - All agree
  - Aditya will amend the PR accordingly.
  - Stefan moves to accept the amended proposal to merge into editor-revision-20260305. David seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

- "Encourage escaping of square brackets and backslashes in text messages #768"
  - https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/768 
  - related to issues:
    - Ambiguous interpretation of square brackets in plaintext messages with embedded links (3.11.6)? #658
    - No method is given for escaping link syntax in plain-text messages #597
  - Aditya walks all through the changes
  - David will try to implement it to test the helpfulness
  - Stefan moves to accept the amended proposal to merge into editor-revision-20260305. Aditya seconds.
    - No discussion, no objections, uniform consent - the motion carries 

Stefan will create the editor-revision-20260305 branch and we will retarget the three above PRs to merge into that branch.

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

- David suggests to maybe add Stevens and Miguel as informal references
- Charles https://web.archive.org/web/20161101093537/https://www.cigital.com/blog/threat-modeling-vocabulary/
- https://www.synopsys.com/blogs/software-security/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/threat-modeling-glossary-diagram.jpg

## 3.5 Review Roadmap [Future.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/main/Future.md)

Skipped

## 3.6 Discuss SARIF's relationship to other relevant standards

- David reported to the emacs mailing list for listening on a socket for SARIF
  - responses were mostly asking if he reimplemented LSP
    but, that it is similar to what VS Code does
  - could LSP gain a capability to send diagnostics as SARIF results?
    - he creates a prototype for that
- David thinking about SARIF v3 (with dynamic analysis) could be an LSP server
- Charles asks if LSP is a text protocol?
- David LSP is a JSON based RPC like protocol via HTTP he tried CBOR
- Aditya with CodeQL we started with LSP went the other direction
- Charles likes if CBOR or DCBOR might be possible
- Aditya should we focus with v3 to compact and streamable?
- Aditya would love to see prototypes to best judge

LSP: https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/

# 4. Other Business

Skipped

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

- DECISION on the future meeding dates of May and June 2026 as per proposal.

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

None besides the work on the pull-requests.

# 7. Next Meeting

  ```
  April 02, 2026
  ```

# 8. Adjournment

Meeting adjourned.
