# 1. Opening Activities

## 1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Stefan)

Note: Quorum requires participation of three or more of 
the five voting members.

- Aditya Sharad 

- Charles Wilson 

- David	Malcolm 

- Nathan Baird 

- Stefan Hagen 

Information: Nathan Baird will loose voting rights when 
not participating in this September meeting.

## 1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 1.5 Approval of previous minutes (Co-Chair David)

## 1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Co-Chair Stefan)

- ACTION on Aditya to provide an informal text to guide 
  escaping of URIs.

- ACTION on David Malcolm to propose text for issue location.
  id within a notification object #540.

- ACTION on David Malcolm to add an instance of a SARIF file 
  illustrating the syntax to issue Seeking clarification on: 
  locationRelationships within a graph node's location #712. 
  Note: lack of #712 progress currently blocks #540 resolution, 
  thus all should support per discussions on TC mailing list or 
  in the issues.

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #611

- ACTION on Aditya to provide a PR for #612, with mapping the
  value 0 to null, and not have that special value
  inside "low" class / category

- ACTION on Aditya to come back to the September TC meeting 
  with a consolidated perspective from Microsoft on hosting / 
  continuation options for the SARIF Viewers.

- ACTION on Stefan to provide a PR for #719. (ONGOING)

- ACTION on Stefan to to exclude issues #588, #614, and #615 
  from SARIF v2.2 and to label accordingly with 3.0, 
  while dropping all other labels. (DONE)

## 1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Stefan)

### 1.7.1 Prospective voting members attending their first meeting

### 1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting

### 1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends

### 1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting

### 1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence

# 2. Future Meetings

## 2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair David)

Scheduled Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC - 1 hr)

- October 09, 2025

Proposed Teleconference (Thursday at 08:00 PT / 15:00 UTC - 1 hr)

- November 06, 2025

# 3. Discussion

## 3.1 Administrative items

Full Majority Vote on additional Co-Chair Role:

- Aditya Sharad

## 3.2 Review current state of ecosystem ongoing work

### 3.2.1 Related activities (OPENSSF, etc.)

### 3.2.2 Other Ecosystem Items

## 3.3 Review outcomes of subgroup discussions

- No editor meeting, and no new editor revision for this month.

## 3.4 Discuss the list of small non-breaking changes for SARIF v2.2

### 3.4.1 Editor's report

No progress on editor revision.

Open items for that:

- #611: Aditya will provide a PR

- #612: Aditya will provide a PR

- #719: Stefan will provide a PR

### 3.4.3 Additional discussion

## 3.5 Review Roadmap Future.md

# 4. Other Business

# 5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)

## 5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Co-Chair Stefan)

## 5.3 Review of Action Items (Co-Chair Stefan)

6. Next Meeting

October 9, 2025

7. Adjournment
